---
layout: post
title: Learning from Twitter's Decline
date: 2016-02-11 17:25:56.000000000 +01:00
type: post
published: true
publication_url: null
categories:
  - Cate
  - writing
  - readwrite
  - Social
tags:
  - hashtag
  - Periscope
  - twitter
meta:
  _thumbnail_id: '136483807506277980'
  dpsp_networks_shares: a:3:{s:8:"linkedin";i:0;s:6:"reddit";i:0;s:11:"google-plus";i:0;}
  _edit_last: '1'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-exclude: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-standout: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-editors-pick: 'off'
  rp4wp_cached: '1'
  _is_empty_after_transformation: 'no'
  _has_warnings_after_transformation: 'no'
author:
  login: cate-lawrence
  email: cate@atravellingcook.com
  display_name: Cate Lawrence
  first_name: Cate
  last_name: Lawrence
---
[Reports this
week](https://www.businessinsider.com/tweets-on-twitter-is-in-serious-decline-2016-2?r=UK&IR=T)
suggest that the number of tweets per day created by Twitter's users has
fallen by more than half since a peak in August 2014, according to a
sampling of data from Twitter's API. It's hardly surprising, as both the
media and tech sector have been charting and predicting its downward
trajectory for several years. This is in addition to [hits on the stock
exchange](https://fortune.com/2015/06/12/twitter-ceo-dick-costolo-resigns/)in
2014, a [change of
CEO](https://fortune.com/2015/06/11/twitter-costolo-dorsey/) in 2015, the
debacle regarding the[identity 2013 of Boston Marathon
bomber](https://faculty.washington.edu/kstarbi/Starbird_iConference2014-final.pdf),
and persistent reports of [bullying via
twitter](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2014/jan/08/twitter-bullies-voice-responsibility-caroline-criado-perez)
from the general public, politicians and celebrities.

Whatever statistical or financial report you choose to read, it's a
sobering lesson for those creating new technology. An analysis of
Twitter so far can provide something of a cautionary tales for those
working in new media, wearables, IoT or any of the new technologies that
are currently being developed. It demonstrates the importance of
nurturing not only your product but also the ecosystem that surrounds
it.

**Your (Perceived) Changes May Work To Your Advantage**
-------------------------------------------------------

![](rw-import/MTM2NDgzODEzNjgwMjI3OTM3.jpg)

The \#RIPTwitter debacle may be a blessing in disguise. The hashtag hit
the social media on Saturday after an article [from
Buzzfeed](https://www.buzzfeed.com/alexkantrowitz/twitter-to-introduce-algorithmic-timeline-as-soon-as-next-we?utm_term=.okYwordBK#.si1v189Mx) stating
that Twitter would soon prioritise the Tweets that appear on a user's
timeline based on algorithms. Essentially, under the reported new
system, you'd see Tweets that Twitter thinks you'd like, rather than in
the current reverse-chronological order similar to how posts on Facebook
timelines are organized

It's the most attention Twitter has received from its users in a while
and shows the need to keep communicating with your audience or
customers. That Jack Dorsey chose to correct the misinformation with
some immediacy, on a weekend to boot, also wins him extra brownie
points.

**Take Ownership Of Your Complaints But Also, Look At The Flipside**
--------------------------------------------------------------------

I've heard Twitter called a 'shouting gallery' of noisy spambots,
celebrity gossip, and trolls, devoid of real interactive communication.
People talk about feeling lonely on Twitter. However the flipside of
this noise and attention is apparent in the success of live twitter
feeds for political debates, sporting events like [The
SuperBowl](https://blog.twitter.com/2016/how-the-broncos-sb50-victory-played-out-live-on-twitter),
and the sheer pleasure in following an amusing hashtag discussion.

Curated experiences like hashtag following have more resonance than an
everyday newsfeed where it's easy to lose the flow. Twitter could
optimise on this strength through providing a range of options for a
curated experience. These could include easier mechanisms to view and
edit those followed, a "more like this" API, the option for breakout
topics in a separate tab and a 'read later' API for news links, to name
but a few ideas.

People are still talking in Twitter and sharing thoughts and opinions
but in a different way. In facilitating these kinds of opportunities,
Twitter would be building on some of their strengths while staying true
to the core goals of facilitating succinct communication amongst account
holders.

**Don't Just Let Them Talk, Make Sure You Listen**
--------------------------------------------------

As a platform, Twitter has controlled its users from the get go, from
the length of tweets to the number of accounts that can be followed, to
the facilitation of abbreviations and hashtags. It has not only shaped
how people use the platform but also their expectations of it.

Where it has failed is a lack of listening - listening to account
holders and what they want and most importantly, engaging with not only
people with inactive accounts but those who have closed their accounts.
Why aren't they asking people to rate their experiences and offer
recommendations? Why are they failing to respond to opportunities to get
meaningful data? Every person that registers an account but uses it only
rarely or deletes their account is a lost opportunity if there is no
engagement.

**Consider Abuse Over The Entire Lifecycle Of Your Product**
------------------------------------------------------------

Twitter has been long accused of [failing to take
abuse](https://readwrite.com/2014/07/29/twitter-harassment-askcostolo-ignores)
on the social network seriously. Even then CEO Dick Costolo recognized
the epidemic and admitted: "We suck at dealing with abuse."

Twitter created a partnership with the nonprofit Women, Action & the
Media (WAM!) in 2014 to address issues of online bullying and
harassment. Twitter granted WAM! an authorized harassment reporter
status. From November 6 to November 26, 2014, they took in reports of
Twitter-based harassment, assessed them, and escalated reports as
necessary to Twitter for special attention.

The [subsequent
report](https://www.womenactionmedia.org/twitter-report/)is interesting
if unpleasant reading. It involved 811 incoming reports of harassment
and discussed a range of issues such as different kinds of harassment
(including doxxing), problems with duplicate reports and those sent by a
bot (over 250), the problems of evidence for both reporting to Twitter
and law enforcement, and the impact of reviews cases upon staff. Not
surprisingly members of the WAM! staff and board themselves received
harassment on Twitter as a result of the reporting project including
hate speech, distribution of photoshopped images and false information,
and rape and death threats.

![](rw-import/MTM2NDgzODQ5MzgyMTQzNTgz.png)

Since the report, Twitter has made a number of changes the process of
abuse reporting, from simplified forms[to making it easier to report
threats to law
enforcement.](https://blog.twitter.com/2015/making-it-easier-to-report-threats-to-law-enforcement)

Twitter has also cracked down on doxxing and revenge porn with [changes
to its usage
policies](https://www.buzzfeed.com/charliewarzel/twitter-tackles-revenge-porn?bftw&utm_term=.opZBvj79K#.ac8068gxp)
in March 2015. People who get caught posting other people's identifying
information, intimate videos and photos without their consent will have
their accounts locked until they delete the offending posts. And repeat
offenders will get suspended from Twitter. For the revenge porn, Twitter
will take stuff down without a DMCA request as long as the person
complaining verifies that it's them in the photos or videos.

It is imperative that anyone wanting to create new technology in the
long term, whether it be IoT, a new form of internet communication,
subcutaneous wearables or blockchain structures is able to anticipate
and to some extent predict what could go wrong over with a product over
a lifetime.

**Focus On The Capabilities Of Your Product To Do Good**
--------------------------------------------------------

![](rw-import/MTM2NDgzODMzODEyODg3MTM1.jpg)

Perhaps Twitter's (and by virtue Periscope's) greatest strength is its
ability to connect people in situations that benefit from leaderless
self-organising and direct action but rely on public communication like
the Arab Spring or the \#blacklivesmatter campaign. Twitter's ability to
create a platform for civilians on the ground reporting cannot be
underestimated.

This is further strengthened by its partnership with Periscope, whose
founders came up with the idea while traveling abroad in 2013. Kayvon
Beykpour was in Istanbul when protests broke out in Taksim Square. He
wanted to see what was happening there, so he turned to Twitter. While
he could read about the protests, he could not see them.

[These kinds of
benefits](https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2010/10/exclusive-biz-stone-on-twitter-and-activism/64772/)
are tangible and effective and can reinforce the benefits of Twitter at
a time when it is accused of lacking an engaged audience. Likewise, most
new technology has great capacity for social action through its
functionality or the scope of its audience or consumer basis.

It will be interesting to see what Twitter comes up with next. There's
still a need for it in a space of crowded social media if the member-led
hash tweet campaigns are anything to go by. People don't react to change
unless they are invested in the outcome and people have shown that they
want Twitter to stay - for the time being. 
