---
layout: post
title: Can a blockchain-IoT hybrid finally give us smart guns?
date: 2016-09-26 09:30:09.000000000 +02:00
type: post
published: true
publication_url: null
categories:
  - Cate
  - writing
  - readwrite
  - Connected Devices
  - Health
tags:
  - Blockchain
  - Blocksafe
  - featured
  - gun control
  - gun safety
  - intelligent guns
  - IoT
  - RFID
  - smart guns
  - Smart Tech Foundation
  - top
meta:
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-exclude: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-standout: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-editors-pick: 'off'
  _edit_last: '550'
  _thumbnail_id: '7806'
  _wpuf_form_id: ''
  _disabel_wpdevart_facebook_comment: enable
  _yoast_wpseo_primary_category: '7084'
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskeywords: "[]"
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskw_text_input: guns
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskw: guns
  _yoast_wpseo_title: Can a blockchain-IoT hybrid finally give us smart guns?
  _yoast_wpseo_linkdex: '83'
  _yoast_wpseo_metadesc: Over the last 20 years, technologists have been working hard
    to create solutions to the challenges of securing guns. But the blockchain may
    soon help.
  rp4wp_cached: '1'
  rp4wp_auto_linked: '1'
  boomtrain_blacklist: '0'
  _boomtrain_blacklist: field_581cd80e9d313
  instant_articles_submission_id: '358220397860987'
  _advads_ad_settings: a:2:{s:11:"disable_ads";i:0;s:19:"disable_the_content";i:0;}
  _yoast_wpseo_content_score: '30'
  _is_empty_after_transformation: 'no'
  _has_warnings_after_transformation: 'no'
author:
  login: cate-lawrence
  email: cate@atravellingcook.com
  display_name: Cate Lawrence
  first_name: Cate
  last_name: Lawrence
---
Over the last 20 years, technologists have been working hard to create
solutions to the challenges of gun safety. Their efforts have kept pace
with the technological developments of Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, sensor
technology, wearables and IoT.

Yet their implementation has been slow, if not stalled to a halt. I
wanted to look at the pain points in this trajectory and how and when it
could move forward. I also spoke to one person who believes the
blockchain could solve some of the back-end structural challenge: Kevin
Barnes, founder of the [Blocksafe
Foundation](https://www.blocksafefoundation.com/), who is also a 20-year
US Army veteran as well as architect and coder.

***See also:** [Blockchain drives \$30B Wanxiang's \$30B smart city
project](https://readwrite.com/2016/09/24/blockchain-drives-wanxiangs-30b-smart-city-project-cl4/)*

But first, let's delve into guns before we explore the inclusion of the
blockchain. In April  this year, President Obama[ made funding for smart
gun
research](https://www.cnet.com/news/obama-orders-feds-to-study-smart-gun-technology/)
part of his end-of-term efforts.  The smart gun promises a technological
fix for gun violence by keeping firearms out of the hands of people who
shouldn’t have them — thieves, children, and anyone else who isn’t the
authorized user.

A smart gun is a firearm that includes a safety feature or features that
allow it to fire only when activated by an authorized user. These safety
features can prevent misuse, accidental shootings, gun thefts, use of
the weapon against the owner, and self-harm. Smart guns distinguish
between authorized users and unauthorized users in several different
ways, including the use of RFID chips or other proximity tokens,
fingerprint recognition, wearable devices, or mechanical locks.

The strange history of smart guns
---------------------------------

For those of us born outside of America, it's hard to imagine the notion
that smart gun development has been thwarted by politics and [political
lobbying](https://www.cbsnews.com/news/60-minutes-is-the-u-s-ready-for-smart-guns/) and
an underlying concern that their introduction would lead to stricter gun
control. But it's the strange reality. In 1999, gunmaker Smith & Wesson
promised the Clinton White House to develop smart guns that can be fired
only by the adults who own them as part of a deal to fend off liability
litigation.

The gun lobby organized a boycott against Smith & Wesson, perceiving
smart guns and other concessions in the deal as part of the gun control
agenda. Factories closed, employees were laid off, and  for some time,
big U.S. gunmakers avoided smart guns. The boycott stemmed from fear
that smart guns would soon be the only guns people were allowed to buy,
infringing on individual’s rights bear arms of their choosing.

Gunmakers Colt received a [\$500,000
grant](https://fortune.com/2015/04/22/smart-guns-theyre-ready-are-we/){.markup--anchor
.markup--p-anchor} from the Justice Department in 1997 to complete
development of a handgun that would work with RFID via a wristband.
Smith and Wesson
[received](https://oig.justice.gov/grants/g7005012.htm){.markup--anchor
.markup--p-anchor} more than \$3 million in Justice Department  grants
between 2000 and 2004 to develop smart guns for law enforcement. The
prototypes were completed but no one was using them and Smith & Wesson
had to layoff 15 percent of its staff due to boycotts.

In 2014, when [Engage
Armament](https://www.reuters.com/article/us-usa-maryland-smartgun-idUSBREA410SD20140502)
of Washington shared their intentions to sell the [German Armatix iP1
.22](https://www.armatix.de/iP1-Pistol.779.0.html?&L=1)-caliber handgun,
which electronically limits the ability to fire the weapon, the shop
received thousands of complaints and threats of violence and death,
forcing them to reconsider their decision.

The Armatix gun is implanted with an electronic chip that allows it to
be fired only if the shooter is wearing a watch that communicates with
it through a radio signal. If the gun is moved more than ten inches from
the watch, it will not fire.

In New Jersey, lawmakers passed a 2002 law requiring that guns be
“smart” once they have been available on the market for three years.
That three-year countdown has never been started in part because of
pressure from gun rights activists on manufacturers not to develop the
technology.

[This
week](https://www.guns.com/2016/09/22/smart-gun-bill-introduced-in-congress/) California
congressman Rep. Mark DeSaulnier, submitted the [Modernizing Firearms
Technology Act ](https://www.govtrack.us/congress/bills/114/hr6080)to
Congress. The bill would require gun retailers to display at least one
personalized firearm and make it available for buyers who are not
prohibited by law from possessing a handgun. If licensees don’t, they
would incur a \$1,000 annual fine.

Solving gun safety challenges with the blockchain
-------------------------------------------------

![blocksafe-stolen-locked-flow-chart](rw-import/blocksafe-stolen-locked-flow-chart.png){.size-full
.wp-image-7669 .aligncenter width="800" height="450"}

“Law enforcement use has been limited because of a lack of proper
infrastructure for adequate adoption of smart gun tech,” Barnes said.
“They have video recording and some try to use sound sensors to listen
for firearm discharge in the city. But without a non-hackable
decentralized infrastructure, IoT devices like smart devices on guns
have too many security risks. Blocksafe is aiming to solve this major
hurdle.”

A blockchain-based system provides the ability to enable, disable, track
and secure firearms without any centralized control or reporting
according to Barnes. Blocksafe is primarily a software-based project,
providing the infrastructure to support the smart-device hardware that
manufacturers and 3D print projects use to enhance the safety and
defense capabilities of firearms. It's a peer to peer network that uses
a combination of lisk,[  ]{.Apple-converted-space}BitTorrent and
Telehash.

In basic terms, when a gun fires, the Blocksafe “shotspot” technology
senses and logs details on the Blocksafe ledger. Notifications
simultaneously go to emergency personnel. Multiple “shotspots” work
together to detect, locate and respond to gun discharges.

[When setting up a smart device initially, Bluetooth authentication is
setup via the Blocksafe app by the owner and all authorized users are
added by the device owner and stored on the local ledger. Authentication
method could vary upon the device and manufacturer. A gun's ]{.s1}[round
count and authentication attempt parameters are stored in real time
along with other data that the device owner chooses to be recorded such
as date, time, and location using encryption onto the local ledger of
the device. ]{.s1}

[When the device has internet access the ledger is synced to the network
and the device owner receives notifications such as push, sms, or email
as configured by the owner’s chosen device settings. The data is
encrypted via a data key on the network. So, only those who have the
data kept from the device owner will be able to view the actual device
activity.]{.s1}

“The network’s purpose is to support the smart device’s features on the
network such as logging activity and remote management that only the
device owner can do,” Barnes explained. “For example, a smart lock can
be used on the gun and can alert the owner of unauthorized discharges
using the Blocksafe app. This will help the device owner control the use
and location of the firearm.”

How to lock and not load
------------------------

The technology will include locks that mount on the gun. Barnes said
they are developing custom prototypes of smart devices, but their bigger
focus is on developing and maintaining the Blocksafe network and
infrastructure. Blocksafe will provide SDK, API and support for other
manufacturers to use the Blocksafe network.

“The stakes are too high for a hackable, controllable third-party
solution,” Barnes said. “We believe that an anonymous, secure and
decentralized infrastructure must be in place to reduce gang activity,
locate stolen firearms, and prevent guns from being used against owners.
These advanced features can save lives and our right of self-defense.

At time of interview, Barnes was in discussion with the [Smart Tech
Foundation ](https://smarttechfoundation.org/) to look at collaborative
opportunities. Whilst it seems unlikely that smart guns will ever
replace traditional guns outright unless the legislature can be stronger
than the lobbyists, the reality is that they could significantly advance
gun safety into the future.
