---
layout: post
title: Germany's first smart bridge to open next month
date: 2016-09-01 11:00:27.000000000 +02:00
type: post
published: true
publication_url: null
categories:
  - Cate
  - writing
  - readwrite
  - Smart Cities
  - Transport
tags:
  - autobahn
  - Car Tech
  - connected cars
  - Germany
  - Internet of Things
  - IoT
  - sensor technology
  - sensors
  - Siemens
  - smart bridge
  - smart car
meta:
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-exclude: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-standout: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-editors-pick: 'off'
  _edit_last: '2'
  _thumbnail_id: '6467'
  _wpuf_form_id: ''
  _disabel_wpdevart_facebook_comment: enable
  _yoast_wpseo_primary_category: '7086'
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskeywords: "[]"
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskw_text_input: bridge
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskw: bridge
  _yoast_wpseo_title: Germany's first smart bridge to open next month
  _yoast_wpseo_metadesc: Sensors built into new bridge near Nuremberg will capture
    and analyze data such as the strain, movements and inclinations of the bridge
    among other data.
  _yoast_wpseo_linkdex: '87'
  rp4wp_cached: '1'
  rp4wp_auto_linked: '1'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-genre: a:1:{i:0;s:76:"<MultipleSelectOptions {} for select
    name='yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-genre[]'>";}
  _is_empty_after_transformation: 'no'
  _has_warnings_after_transformation: 'yes'
author:
  login: cate-lawrence
  email: cate@atravellingcook.com
  display_name: Cate Lawrence
  first_name: Cate
  last_name: Lawrence
---
An \$12.3 million smart bridge, opening this October, is being built in
northern Bavaria and will include technology never seen before on the
German Autobahn.

Sensors built into the bridge on the Autobahn 9,

<div id="EObjFuElFB2MSbKyHGiL" style="width: 236px">

<https://www.laviagraes.com/foro-viagra-femenina>

</div>

will capture and analyze data such as the strain, movements and
inclinations of the bridge, as well as the temperature, humidity and
pressure from vehicles. Experts will then be able to tell the state of
the bridge according to the data they receive, with the aim of
discovering damage before regular tests.

The bridge in Nuremberg will be tested out as a five-year pilot project
to determine whether it might also work in the rest of Germany.

New bridge part of the digital autobahn test field
--------------------------------------------------

The new bridge is part of the ["Digital Autobahn Test
Field,"](https://www.bmvi.de/SharedDocs/DE/Pressemitteilungen/2015/084-dobrindt-startet-digitales-testfeld-autobahn.html?nn=134500)
a project which the government launched in 2015.  The A9 between Munich
and Nuremberg, one of the most important traffic routes in Europe, is
gradually being transformed into a test route for innovations. Using the
slogan "Mobility 4.0", the German Federal Government, the Free State of
Bavaria and companies such as Siemens and Infineon, are developing the
A9 into a proving ground for the technologies of the future.

The aim is make driving faster, safer and reduce congestion. [Another
advantage of the project is that it could reduce the number
of *Geisterfahrer*](https://www.siemens.com/innovation/en/home/pictures-of-the-future/mobility-and-motors/urban-mobility-radar-technology-for-highways.html)
- ghost drivers, or those who enter the road on an exit and drive
against the flow of traffic. By warning these people and other drivers
of the mistake they are about to make, the system will increase safety
for what is a recurrent problem on German roads.

The digital project also involves introducing free Wi-Fi access in six
different parking lots of the north Bavarian region which will be
available from mid-November.

![Screen Shot 2016-08-30 at
14.27.30](rw-import/Screen-Shot-2016-08-30-at-14.27.30.jpg){.size-full
.wp-image-6468 .aligncenter width="544" height="266"}

Bridge moves vehicle safety improvements outside of the car?
------------------------------------------------------------

While automobile manufacturers are concentrating on creating self
driving cars, traffic planners are looking to develop an intelligent
road infrastructure that will direct vehicles but also actively
communicate with them. The German Ministry’s aim is to create a platform
ready for introducing and testing additional vehicle-to-infrastructure
(V2I) and [vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) communication
features](https://www.esk.fraunhofer.de/en/media/press_releases/pm1510.html).

Radar sensors is utilized in the project, controlled by modern 77 GHz
microchips made by [Infineon](https://www.infineon.com/). They have
already formed an integral part of driver assistance systems for some
years and can for example, maintain a constant distance to the vehicle
ahead, and initiate or automatically perform emergency braking. They
will make it possible to guide vehicles to an emergency stop on the
bridge if a vehicle’s sensor system fails, removing the need for
emergency braking.

A second signal could simultaneously be sent out to warn other vehicles
to keep a safe distance away. Obviously, this would avoid any
interruption to the flow of traffic.

***See also:** [Connected cars need to play well with smart
cities](https://readwrite.com/2016/08/13/connected-cars-need-play-well-smart-cities-tl4/)*

Many companies are interested in testing new technologies on the route
with test vehicles from Audi, Mercedes and BMW are already using their
on-board computers to regularly make their way through heavy traffic on
the A9. The highway’s communication network is also being tested,
including the ability of the system to warn vehicles on the A9 in good
time before they attempt risky passing maneuvers.

In addition, technology from the [Fraunhofer Research Institution for
Communication Systems and
Continental](https://www.esk.fraunhofer.de/en.html) is making it possible
for a vehicle to warn the cars behind it that it is about to brake –
even before the brake lights go on. Such capabilities are designed to
provide drivers with alternative routes and warn them of impending
dangers.

Upon project completion, Siemens and Infineon will release all test data
in

<div id="0TDxouj5ZBhBDDIMC" style="width: 372px">

<https://www.viagragenericoes24.com/tipo-de-viagra-natural>

</div>

an open source format. “The idea is that creative minds from the
automotive industry, the digital sector, and the scientific community
will be able to use the data generated from this project to develop
additional innovative mobility solutions,” says [Marcus
Zwick,](https://www.siemens.com/innovation/en/home/pictures-of-the-future/mobility-and-motors/urban-mobility-radar-technology-for-highways.html) who
responsible for Siemens Mobility's technology incubator. It'll be
interesting to see what innovations develop on the intelligent autobahn.
