---
layout: post
title: What To Expect At This Year's Mobile World Congress
date: 2016-02-19 20:50:00.000000000 +01:00
type: post
published: true
publication_url: null
categories:
  - Cate
  - writing
  - readwrite
  - Mobile
tags:
  - Cisco
  - Facebook
  - IoT
  - mobile
  - security
  - wearable
meta:
  _thumbnail_id: '136693191725295200'
  dpsp_networks_shares: a:3:{s:8:"linkedin";i:0;s:6:"reddit";i:0;s:11:"google-plus";i:0;}
  _edit_last: '541'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-exclude: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-standout: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-editors-pick: 'off'
  rp4wp_cached: '1'
  _is_empty_after_transformation: 'no'
  _has_warnings_after_transformation: 'no'
author:
  login: cate-lawrence
  email: cate@atravellingcook.com
  display_name: Cate Lawrence
  first_name: Cate
  last_name: Lawrence
excerpt: 5G And Security To Lead The Charge
---
Mobile World Congress (MWC) is a mobile phone tradeshow held annually in
Barcelona. It involves over 2,000 companies and 100,000 attendees. While
it may have started out with its emphasis firmly planted on mobile
devices, its reach now extends to wearables, VR, and all manner of IoT.
The event will also showcase drones for the first time. Keynote speakers
include CEOs from PayPal, Facebook, AT&T, and Cisco. I'll be attending
and interviewing a series of companies about their businesses and their
products. With over 100 emails each day from PR people I thought I
should put together some predictions:

**Mobile phone launches**

Most of these will be predictably held pre-conference the day before the
real conference commences. Samsung will be launching the Galaxy S7
(great video) and it's most likely the LG G5 will be presented. No real
surprise there. I'm more interested in Xiaomi's launch of its Mi 5
flagship smartphone. It can be bought readily in much of Europe but will
they also launch an entry into the US market?

Likewise, they'll be plenty of discussions and reveals by mobile
operators, service providers and transport and utility companies. 

I'm expecting plenty of conversations about mobile security in the wake
of Apple's letter this week, with IoT center stage. As a result, the IoT
pavilion will be a hotbed of connected technology with plenty of
emphasis on IoT security. Home devices will be getting more attention,
especially in regard to home security and lighting, but B2B devices and
platforms (with plenty of emphasis on the cloud) will be on an equal
footing with companies like Jasper, GE, and IBM showing their wares. 

**Beyond the keynotes**

It's easy to get caught up in the excitement of the big name companies,
but I'm curious to see what vendors at the Greek Pavilion have to offer
given they've been innovating under financially lean circumstances.
Companies that not only have survived, but grown, their businesses
throughout the six years of Greece’s financial crisis are a testament to
the resilience of the country’s growing mobile technology community.

**Wearables**

Wearables were huge at last year's MWC with everything from fitness
bands to smart glasses. I've yet to see any wearables that I'm
breathlessly waiting for, but there'll be plenty in the medical arena
and protective clothing industries to sustain my interest. I'm
predicting a touch of AI here as well, particularly in the prosthetics
arena.

**5G is coming**

Most of the chatter at MWC will be around 5G, the next generation of the
mobile Internet. 2020 has been touted as a deadline for the arrival of
5G, but there is still no global standard for the technology. I'm
expecting lots of demonstrations of speed capabilities.

I'll be talking to lots of people over the week and providing you with
plenty of interesting and informative insights. Stay tuned for more from
Monday! 
