---
layout: post
title: Is Seoul the world's smartest city?
date: 2016-05-12 15:00:22.000000000 +02:00
type: post
published: true
publication_url: null
categories:
  - Cate
  - writing
  - readwrite
  - Smart Cities
tags:
  - Cisco
  - electric vehicles
  - featured
  - Internet of Things
  - IoT
  - LG
  - Microsoft
  - OLEV
  - QR codes
  - seoul
  - Smart Cities
  - Smart Citizens
  - top
meta:
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-exclude: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-standout: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-editors-pick: 'off'
  _edit_last: '2'
  _thumbnail_id: '1957'
  _wpuf_form_id: ''
  _disabel_wpdevart_facebook_comment: enable
  _yoast_wpseo_primary_category: '7089'
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskeywords: "[]"
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskw_text_input: Seoul
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskw: Seoul
  _yoast_wpseo_title: Is Seoul the world's smartest city?
  _yoast_wpseo_metadesc: With a tech-mad population and rapid growth, Seoul is both
    a blueprint for smart city development and a petri-dish for technological experiments.
  _yoast_wpseo_linkdex: '82'
  rp4wp_auto_linked: '1'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-genre: a:1:{i:0;s:76:"<MultipleSelectOptions {} for select
    name='yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-genre[]'>";}
  rp4wp_cached: '1'
  boomtrain_blacklist: '0'
  _boomtrain_blacklist: field_581cd80e9d313
  _advads_ad_settings: a:2:{s:11:"disable_ads";i:0;s:19:"disable_the_content";i:0;}
  instant_articles_submission_id: '312995452471589'
  _yoast_wpseo_content_score: '30'
  _is_empty_after_transformation: 'no'
  _has_warnings_after_transformation: 'no'
author:
  login: cate-lawrence
  email: cate@atravellingcook.com
  display_name: Cate Lawrence
  first_name: Cate
  last_name: Lawrence
---
In many ways, the city of Seoul is both a blueprint "how-to" guide for
smart city development and a petri-dish for technological experiments.
Almost every aspect of public life in Seoul is guided by technology,
from its [integrated public transport
system](https://city.lgcns.com/Contents/EN/Main/Main.aspx) to the
government's emergency warning system.

Companies like
[Microsoft](https://citynetmembers.wordpress.com/2013/10/08/announcing-microsoft-citynext-joins-the-2013-citynet-seoul-congress/),
[Cisco](https://www.cisco.com/web/KR/innovationcenter/songdo/index-en.html) and
[LG](https://city.lgcns.com/Contents/EN/Main/Main.aspx) are just a few of
those making technology omnipresent in the South Korean capital. It's a
constantly evolving process and when you think of a new "smart city"
technology, it's most likely that Seoul did it first - and probably some
time ago.

[*See also: Open wireless standards could chop city costs by nearly a
third*](https://readwrite.com/2016/05/07/smart-cities-open-wireless-standards-ct4/)

While it can be hard to compare one city's "smarts" to another's, here
are just a few examples of the technologies that may make Seoul the
world's smartest city.

**Smart devices everywhere **

According to a 2013
[report](https://www.itu.int/dms_pub/itu-t/oth/23/01/T23010000190001PDFE.pdf),
Seoul has a history empowering residents to be connected to technology.
In 2012, Seoul began distributing second-hand smart devices to
low-income families and others in need. Citizens are encouraged to
donate their old devices when buying new ones, incentivized by tax
deduction in the range of \$50-100 per device donated.

Seoul has been providing education courses on smart consumer
technologies since 2009, offering both city-run lectures and city-funded
classes through private education institutions. Aimed at immigrants,
low-income individuals and elderly people using smart devices for the
first time, these classes attracted over 47,000 people from 2009 to
2011. Although still addressing the basics of smart technology use,
these classes will, in the future, teach more advanced skills, giving
more citizens the tools to improve smart Seoul’s services.

**Roads that recharge**

![19d1ef4e9ed63ab20c655638a25ee150
(1)](rw-import/19d1ef4e9ed63ab20c655638a25ee150-1-768x1024.jpg){.wp-image-1952
.aligncenter width="440" height="587"}

OLEV (Online electric vehicle technology) enables vehicles to transfer
electricity wirelessly from the road surface while they're moving. As a
bus drives through along one of the recharging surfaces, power comes
from electrical cables buried under the surface of the road, creating
magnetic fields. There is a receiving device installed on the underbody
of the OLEV that converts these fields into electricity. The length of
power strips installed under the road is generally 5%-15% of the entire
road, requiring only a few sections of the road to be rebuilt with the
embedded cables.

The strip of road lined with cables is also able to distinguish OLEV
buses from regular vehicles, meaning it can switch itself off when it's
not in use. As the buses don't need to hold enough charge for the
entirety of their journeys, their batteries are around three times
smaller than those on most electric vehicles.

**u-Seoul Safety Service**

[u-Seoul Safety
Service](https://www.tekes.fi/globalassets/global/ohjelmat-ja-palvelut/ohjelmat/ubicom/aineistot/raportit/korea/ubiquitouscityinkorea.pdf)
has been in operation since April 2008, combining location-based
services and CCTV technologies to notify authorities and family members
of emergencies involving children, the disabled, the elderly, and those
suffering from Alzheimer’s disease, all of whom are voluntarily equipped
with a smart device. When its holder leaves a designated safe zone or
pushes its emergency button, an emergency alert is sent to guardians,
police, fire departments and CCTV Control Centers.

**Open Governance and Public Data**

[Seoul’s open governance
strategy](https://citynet-ap.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/06/Seoul-e-Government-English.pdf)
encourages transparent city governance and open communication between
the city’s government and its citizens. Citizens and the private sector
are consequently encouraged to make use of the city’s administrative
information to uncover new job and business opportunities.  In March
2013, using GPS embedded in smartphones, the Seoul Metropolitan
Government began to offer “Information around myself on maps,” a feature
that provides information on locations of free Wi-Fi zones,
disabled-friendly facilities, unmanned certification-issuing equipment,
restrooms, and construction sites.

There is also the [Dasan Call
Center,](https://120dasan.seoul.go.kr/foreign/english.html) a 24/7
government agency that fields all questions regarding city services.
Residents can also book public services and utilities through the
internet 24/7.

**Eunpyeong u-City**

[Eunpyeong
u-City](https://city.lgcns.com/Contents/EN/CaseStudy/CaseView.aspx?pageNo=1&iclsNo=&caseNo=21&searchStr=%22)
is perhaps the most "Big Brother" example of a smart city. It's the
result of a 7-year project completed in 2011 and now houses 45,000
people on land covering 862 acres. Eunpyeong’s residents do not require
private Internet access or smart devices to make use of city services,
and instead receive practical information via smart devices on their
living room walls. In the interests of residents’ safety, intelligent
CCTV cameras installed on every street corner automatically detect
people trespassing on private premises.

The city’s high-tech street lamps reduce energy us, and provide
residents with wireless internet access. The city’s [u-Green
service](https://www.tekes.fi/globalassets/global/ohjelmat-ja-palvelut/ohjelmat/ubicom/aineistot/raportit/korea/ubiquitouscityinkorea.pdf)
represents a network of sensors assessing factors such as water and air
quality, transmitting this information directly to public spaces and the
devices in citizen’s living rooms.

**Virtual stores**

![0000ab89](rw-import/0000ab89-1024x697.jpeg){.wp-image-1942
.aligncenter width="604" height="411"}

International grocery chain,
[Tescos](https://www.telegraph.co.uk/technology/mobile-phones/8601147/Tesco-builds-virtual-shops-for-Korean-commuters.html)
has had virtual stores in Seoul in public spaces since 2011. Products
are laid out just as they’d be in a traditional shop. The "shelves"
feature QR codes which can be scanned by the traveller’s mobile phone,
building up a shopping basket in the few minutes before the train
arrives. If your train comes before your basket is complete, you can
carry on shopping without the pictures and codes.
