---
layout: post
title: The Internet of Packaging? Meet Magic Add
date: 2016-05-06 12:00:11.000000000 +02:00
type: post
published: true
publication_url: null
categories:
  - Cate
  - writing
  - readwrite
  - Connected Devices
  - Fintech
  - Health
  - Industrial
  - Smart Cities
  - Transport
tags:
  - apple smartwatch
  - food waste
  - Internet of Packaging
  - Internet of Things
  - IoT
  - logistics
  - Magic Add
  - marketing
  - maunfacturing
  - smart marketing
  - supply chain
meta:
  _edit_last: '550'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-exclude: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-standout: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-editors-pick: 'off'
  _wpuf_form_id: ''
  _disabel_wpdevart_facebook_comment: enable
  _yoast_wpseo_primary_category: '7084'
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskeywords: "[]"
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskw_text_input: packaging
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskw: packaging
  _yoast_wpseo_title: The Internet of packaging? Meet Magic Add
  _yoast_wpseo_metadesc: IoT, meet IoP   - the Internet of Packaging. Now packing materials
    and everyday containers can provide data on their contents and bond customers
    to brands.
  _yoast_wpseo_linkdex: '85'
  rp4wp_auto_linked: '1'
  _thumbnail_id: '1739'
  rp4wp_cached: '1'
  _is_empty_after_transformation: 'no'
  _has_warnings_after_transformation: 'no'
author:
  login: cate-lawrence
  email: cate@atravellingcook.com
  display_name: Cate Lawrence
  first_name: Cate
  last_name: Lawrence
---
Consider the number of the packaged products in the world, and that the
possibility that each could be interactive either within the supply
chain as part of the manufacturing process or as a retail product that
interacts with the retailer and/or consumer.

All of a sudden the size of the Internet of Things (IoT) becomes
unimaginably big and adding way more packages as well. And right now,
UPS and FedEx still leave you a ratty Post-It Note to let you know they
missed you.

Enter Finland's [Magic Add](https://www.magicadd.com/)  - they enable
packages to communicate with people. Readwrite spoke with CEO Samuli
Manninen about the company.

Magic Add started off in 2011 with the idea of creating a self-cooling
soda cans, intending to include add a "digital experience" such as a QR
code for marketing purposes to off set the price of the can.  The soda
cans didn't take off due to the need for further technological
advancement, but an interest in smart packaging remained. Today Magic
Add utilitizes coding and sensor technology to enable everyday packaging
to communicate.

An example is their collaboration with packaging
giant [Huhtamaki](https://www.huhtamaki.com/) to include a label on their
hot beverage cups, printed with a unique technology to connect the
packaging with digital content. The coffee cups were distributed amongst
Finland's ABC service stations. Once the customer purchased a beverage
then connected the code to the Internet via their mobile, they were
rewarded with two months of free usage of Nelonen Media’s
[Ruutu+](https://www.ruutu.fi/plus) on-demand video service.

This enabled customers can see episodes from the highly popular [Vain
Elämää ](https://www.nelonen.fi/ohjelmat/vain-elamaa) (Just Life) series
in advance before it aired on TV.  The result: a new means for Nelonen
Media to reach out to more customers and make their Ruutu+ -service more
known and used in Finland. At the same time the concept will make ABC’s
coffee cups more appealing for consumers.

![packaging](rw-import/IoP-262x300.jpg){.wp-image-1393
.aligncenter width="269" height="308"}

QR codes are something that never really took off globally - for
example, they are big in Southeast Asia but something of a failure in
Australia - something Manninen attributes to a lack of consideration by
retailers and marketers about the content behind the code. He notes that
the codes often led to poorly constructed websites offering little to
consumers - making the problem not the technology but the content.

Magic Add's growth area is really within the supply chain process of
packaged goods where coding can be unique to each product and highly
scalable. As Manninen explains:

> "The idea is that use the same unique and dynamic code in the logistic
> chain and then when it moves to the consumers it changes to consumer
> marketing."

Tracking capability provides cost-saving opportunities for  logistics
chains in industries with critical environmental aspects. Magic Add
technology provides a capability to ensure that certain temperature or
other environmental factors have not exceeded acceptable limits. Even
time can be tracked, when a monitored factor has violated a certain
specification.

Smart packaging means less waste, better dinners
------------------------------------------------

Food packages embedded with unique codes can mean a reduction in food
waste, as it tells consumers food expiry dates and could also alert them
to special deals. It also makes stocktaking for retailers considerably
faster. Codes could be used to marketers to offer recipes and to provide
product information on the ingredients, producers, production
circumstances, etc. Imagine this combined with a personalized shopper
profile so the buyer can determine whether a product fits their health
and dietary requirements and a smart fridge that tells the shopper what
ingredients they already have that are close to expiry date and you can
see just a few of the possibilities.

Manninen predicts that smart kitchens will be a reality in 5-10 years
and will need to utilize logic to be truly functional. "A fridge is not
smart if it doesn't know what it has inside it" he said.

As IoT's footprint expands every day, it will provide
massive opportunities for manufacturers, marketers and consumers. The
"Internet of Packaging" is here and will become part of our everyday
reality before we know it.
