---
layout: post
title: Can the blockchain and IoT solve international freight's issues?
date: 2016-06-10 12:30:54.000000000 +02:00
type: post
published: true
publication_url: null
categories:
  - Cate
  - writing
  - readwrite
  - Fintech
  - Transport
tags:
  - bitcoin
  - Blockchain
  - Cargochain
  - Ethereum
  - featured
  - Flexpot
  - Freight
  - Internet of Things
  - IoT
  - IOTA
  - top
  - transport
meta:
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-exclude: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-standout: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-editors-pick: 'off'
  _edit_last: '550'
  _thumbnail_id: '3055'
  _oembed_c457f5b17b1178793aa98f504f13fa3b: '<blockquote data-secret="AvV2RJPox6"
    class="wp-embedded-content"><a href="https://readwrite.com/2016/03/08/flexport-tackles-freight/">Flexport
    takes on freight world</a></blockquote><iframe class="wp-embedded-content" sandbox="allow-scripts"
    security="restricted" style="position: absolute; clip: rect(1px, 1px, 1px, 1px);"
    src="https://readwrite.com/2016/03/08/flexport-tackles-freight/embed/#?secret=AvV2RJPox6"
    data-secret="AvV2RJPox6" width="500" height="282" title="&#8220;Flexport takes
    on freight world&#8221; &#8212; ReadWrite" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0"
    scrolling="no"></iframe>'
  _oembed_time_c457f5b17b1178793aa98f504f13fa3b: '1465585767'
  _wpuf_form_id: ''
  _disabel_wpdevart_facebook_comment: enable
  _yoast_wpseo_primary_category: '7086'
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskeywords: "[]"
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskw_text_input: Freight
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskw: Freight
  _yoast_wpseo_title: Can the blockchain and IoT solve international freight's issues?
  _yoast_wpseo_metadesc: The blockchain has wide functional applications outside of
    pure financial transactions, especially when disrupting IOT-centric industries
    like freight.
  _yoast_wpseo_linkdex: '74'
  rp4wp_auto_linked: '1'
  rp4wp_cached: '1'
  boomtrain_blacklist: '0'
  _boomtrain_blacklist: field_581cd80e9d313
  instant_articles_submission_id: '1706191353042878'
  _advads_ad_settings: a:2:{s:11:"disable_ads";i:0;s:19:"disable_the_content";i:0;}
  _yoast_wpseo_content_score: '30'
  _is_empty_after_transformation: 'no'
  _has_warnings_after_transformation: 'no'
author:
  login: cate-lawrence
  email: cate@atravellingcook.com
  display_name: Cate Lawrence
  first_name: Cate
  last_name: Lawrence
---
It's become well established that the blockchain has an almost infinite
range of [functional
applications](https://readwrite.com/2016/01/06/new-blockchain-applications/)outside
of pure financial transactions. This is particularly pertinent when it
comes to the Internet of Things where technology is being used to
disrupt a range of traditional industries.

One example is cargo
[freight](https://readwrite.com/2016/03/08/flexport-tackles-freight/),
an industry traditionally reliant on paperwork - - typically in
triplicate - - including the physical couriering of documents as proof
of purchase. As well as being incredibly wasteful such a process caused
problems in document authentication, payments, time delays and
couriering not the mention the risk of losing of physical documents.

*See also: [Will blockchain drive the fourth industrial
revolution?](https://readwrite.com/2016/05/09/blockhain-new-ir/)*

One team has found a novel way to address these inefficiencies and
authenticity challenges through the blockchain.  In January Dominik
Schiener and his team won first prize at the [Shanghai Blockchain
Hackathon](https://www.blockchainlabs.org/blockchain-hackthon-en/) for
their
project [Cargochain](https://github.com/domschiener/cargochain/tree/master/presentation).
We saw their work recently here in Berlin where they won the silver
medal at the [GTEC Blockchain Innovation
Awards](https://gtec.berlin/announcing-the-shortlist-for-the-gtec-blockchain-innovation-award/) and I
met with Dominik to learn more about it.

**ReadWrite: How did your interest in the block chain and IoT come
about?**

Dominik Schiener: Like with most people, it started in 2012 when I first
heard and read about Bitcoin. The concept behind Bitcoin intrigued me
and I wanted to get involved. I started out with mining but then moved
on to create my own startups in Switzerland and the UK. For the past
year I’ve been mainly focusing on smart cities and how to combine
Blockchain and IoT to create new, decentralized platforms that can spawn
powerful applications. For me, smart cities consist of two core
elements: participatory innovations and Internet of Things. Both of
these can be enabled through blockchain and it’s what we’re working on.

![Screen Shot 2016-06-08 at
20.55.18](rw-import/Screen-Shot-2016-06-08-at-20.55.18.jpg){.size-full
.wp-image-3056 .aligncenter width="559" height="496"}

**RW: Can you describe IOTA? What do you see as its main applications?**

DS: IOTA is a distributed ledger that can be used for transactional
settlements as well as data transfers. Because of the properties of IOTA
- - namely, its scalability, lightweight-ness and lack of transaction
fees - it’s the perfect solution for the Internet of Things. We see IOTA
as an enabler and the backbone of the "Machine Economy," as it enables
all of these new machine interactions that were previously impossible.
Not only can machines pay each other for the first time, but they can
also communicate with each other and transmit data securely through a
distributed ledger.

**RW: The blockchain is commonly criticized for being slow and costly,
especially with examples like the bitcoin blockchain, and counter to
typical scalable database technologies. How does IOTA differ from this
or respond to these issues?**

DS: The main technological innovation of IOTA is the Tangle, which is a
completely new Blockchain design that gets rid of the blocks and
introduces a Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG) (NOTE: you can read the
whitepaper on this technology at
<https://iotatoken.com/IOTA_Whitepaper.pdf>). The way the Tangle achieves
consensus is entirely self-regulating. This means that consensus is no
longer decoupled as with today’s blockchains. Because of this, IOTA is
scalable, it is no longer limited to 10-minute block times and most
notably, there are no transaction fees. This makes IOTA a perfect
solution for machine-to-machine interactions that need to be able to
send tiny nano-payments to pay each other for certain services.

In addition to this, IOTA is also quantum proof. This makes IOTA the
first quantum proof distributed ledger in this space - which by itself,
is an extraordinary technological achievement. IOTA all-around
introduces novel new concepts to the space and it is arguably the most
innovative project in this space since
[Ethereum](https://www.ethereum.org/).

**RW: Where did the idea for CargoChain come from? Who is behind the
project and what stage is it at?**

DS: The initial concept behind CargoChain was initiated about six months
ago, when I was researching what I wanted to develop for the Shanghai
Blockchain Hackathon. As is nearly always the case in the blockchain
space, you’re looking from an outsider’s perspective to figure out where
blockchain can be applied to. So it was really about finding an existing
problem that can be solved through blockchain.

The interesting thing about international trade is that the more I read
into it, the more I realized how vastly outdated the industry really is
and how, through blockchain and IoT, we can have a serious impact to
improve it from the ground up.

Since then  - - I ended up winning the Shanghai Blockchain Hackathon
with this concept - - we have been working more deliberately on how to
combine IoT and blockchain and create a new platform for international
trade. We also won the Technology Challenge of the Emirates National
Bank of Dubai in April and last month we placed second at GTEC. Right
now, we’re on-boarding partners to trial our first "proof of concept"
this summer.

*See also: [Flexport takes on freight
world](https://readwrite.com/2016/05/09/blockhain-new-ir/)*

**RW: Industries like shipping and manufacturing are quite traditional,
not to mention fond of paper trails. How will you sell the concepts of
CargoChain to them?**

DS: It’s really about creating a product that is ten times better than
what is currently being offered. Our initial strategy is focused on
collaborating with larger corporations to run proof -of-concepts with
their supply chains so that we gain hands-on insight and also
recognition. Our product development is very iterative, and we want our
product to be really shaped by the industry so that we can create
something that solves problems for all of the stakeholders involved in
the trade right now.

**RW: What’s next for you?**

DS: Right now our main focus is on IOTA, since it’s a foundational
element of many of the products we have in mind, including CargoChain.
IOTA will launch within a month and we intend to establish an entire new
ecosystem for IoT and Blockchain use cases through IOTA. We’re quite
excited about that and hope to get more startups and corporations
involved in shaping this ecosystem. For CargoChain, we intend to run a
public proof-of-concept running by Summer.
