---
layout: post
title: Could the Greek tech sector save the Greek economy?
date: 2016-03-23 09:30:21.000000000 +01:00
type: post
published: true
publication_url: null
categories:
  - Cate
  - writing
  - readwrite
  - Build
  - Deals
tags:
  - accelerators
  - Entrepreneur
  - greece
  - nutrINsider
  - orange grove
  - saintiago
  - soft web
  - startup
  - the netherlands
meta:
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-exclude: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-standout: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-editors-pick: 'off'
  _edit_last: '550'
  _disabel_wpdevart_facebook_comment: enable
  ninja_forms_edit_roles: ''
  ninja_forms_edit_user_list: ''
  ninja_forms_edit_editor: _post_editor
  ninja_forms_edit_enable_editing: '1'
  ninja_forms_edit_override: ''
  ninja_forms_edit_delete: '0'
  ninja_forms_edit_title: '0'
  ninja_forms_edit_content: '0'
  ninja_forms_edit_categories:
  - Cate
  - writing
  - readwrite '0'
  ninja_forms_edit_tags: '0'
  ninja_forms_edit_status: '0'
  _yoast_wpseo_primary_category: '2'
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskeywords: "[]"
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskw_text_input: Greek tech
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskw: Greek tech
  _yoast_wpseo_metadesc: Most people don't think of dynamism when they think of the
    Greek economy today. But the Greek tech sector is doing its part to pull the country
    through.
  _yoast_wpseo_linkdex: '93'
  _thumbnail_id: '54'
  rp4wp_cached: '1'
  _is_empty_after_transformation: 'no'
  _has_warnings_after_transformation: 'yes'
author:
  login: cate-lawrence
  email: cate@atravellingcook.com
  display_name: Cate Lawrence
  first_name: Cate
  last_name: Lawrence
---
When you think of the Greek economy, it's easy to recall news
images protests, mass unemployment and hardship. But the Greek tech
sector is helping to lift the country's economic spirits.

Plagued by one of the worst economic environments since the Great
Depression, political uncertainty and [capital
controls](https://www.economist.com/news/europe/21664223-modern-society-can-function-without-known-comforts-and-conveniences-life-under-capital-controls) that
have stopped nearly all international payments in and out of the
country, Greece’s mobile and tech companies have experienced it all.
Some of these companies have not only survived but grown their
businesses throughout the six years of Greece’s financial crisis, a
testament to the resilience of the country’s growing mobile technology
community.

The good news is found in an emerging ecosystem of incubators, venture
investors and university entrepreneurship programs. There are more than
1,000 startups in Greece with over half in the technology sector in a
broad range of industries, from aerospace and biotech to tourism and
mobile apps. The rate of company formation has increased twelve-fold
since 2010.

Great potential workforce for Greek tech
----------------------------------------

The tech sector is thriving, with a workforce of highly educated
engineers and developers - many at a masters level or higher - according
to Thanos Ganas, board member of the Hellenic Startup Association. They
encompass both recent graduates and those laid off elsewhere due to the
economic crisis.

With them comes a massive startup community of hubs and co-working
spaces, including [Coho](https://www.coho.gr/home/en/) in Thessaloniki
and Colab, [The Cube](https://thecube.gr/), [Impact Hub
Athens](https://athens.impacthub.net/en/) in Athens. Business incubators
and shared work spaces have sprung up across Greece, and conferences and
forums on entrepreneurship and innovation abound alongside innovation
hubs like [Corallia](https://www.corallia.org/en/), [Start
up Greece](https://www.startupgreece.gov.gr/) and [Endeavour
Greece](https://endeavor.org.gr/) and organisations like the [Hellenic
Association of Mobile Application Companies
(HAMAC)](https://www.sekee.gr/default.aspx?lang=el-GR&page=1).

Many involve international support - like [Orange
Grove](https://orangegrove.biz/), a workspace for young entrepreneurs
started by the Dutch embassy in Athens, together with a number of Dutch
and  Greek tech sector corporate sponsors, charity foundations and
universities. Its aim is to address the “brain drain” and youth
unemployment in Greece. It welcomes startup founders under 40.

\[caption id="attachment\_49" align="aligncenter"
width="747"\]![Greece-tech-savior](rw-import/Greece-300x169.jpg){.wp-image-49
width="747" height="421"} Orange Grove, a Dutch-Greek joint
entrepreneurship effort in Athens\[/caption\]

On a weekly basis, Orange Grove welcomes local and international
speakers - often from the Netherlands and USA - who share their
experience and expertise on a wide variety of topics. They focus on
entrepreneurship, fundraising, personal skills, branding, and marketing
and topics often include sales, legal issues, PR, logistics, and HR
issues.

I spoke to just a few of the mobile and app Greek startups represented
at Mobile World Congress in Barcelona. From smartphone makers to
marketing & payments, the participating companies represented the whole
ecosystem of innovation and technology in the country.

Spyros Karababas from [Soft Web](https://www.softweb.gr/en/), a company
that specialises  in developing [web - mobile
applications](https://play.google.com/store/apps/developer?id=SOFTWeb%20-%20Adaptive%20I.T.%20Solutions&hl=elhttps://pocketwarp.com/) and
the delivery of i[ntegrated technology
services](https://play.google.com/store/apps/developer?id=SOFTWeb%20-%20Adaptive%20I.T.%20Solutions&hl=el), explains
the appeal of international networking to Greek startups. "The economic
crisis made us forward-looking and keen to establish international
partnerships," he says. "Four years ago, only one Greek company attended
MWC, now this year there are 25 with another 55 represented by
the Hellenic Startup Association."

I was interested in learning about some of the challenges specific to
startups in Greece. Karababas stressed that many people had fled the
country due to an inability to find work, particularly in the public
sector, agriculture and manufacturing. He explained that his own company
came from humble beginnings

"We started in 2007 at a time when no one was talking about mobile
technology in Greece. We were three people working in a garage, and now
we have grown to a team of 20 people."

But Greek tech has same challenges as all Greek businesses
----------------------------------------------------------

He explained some of the particular challenges in running a business in
Greece, particularly the capital controls that limit businesses
registered in Greece to only transferring up to €500 out of the country
a month. Naturally, this makes it difficult for anyone running an
international business or using cloud services like web hosting or
Paypal.  However, he said that tech startups essentially only need an
apartment and a laptop, unlike other industries like manufacturing that
were unable to function effectively under the capital controls.

Spiros noted that Greek tech entrepreneurs are an innovative group, many
of whom collaborate and support each other through organisations like
the Hellenic Startup Association. He stressed

"We have found solutions, we have created international accounts to
support and teach other. Even though there are problems, we always find
solutions."

One area of success is with startups focusing on the industries that are
popular in Greece already, like tourism and hospitality. Tourism
accounts for [a
quarter](https://www.wsj.com/articles/can-greek-businesses-even-survive-1423615283) of
the economy in Greece, and the country ranks as the [seventh most
popular
destination](https://techcrunch.com/2015/07/13/securing-startups-will-be-yet-another-gauntlet-for-greece/) in
the world. Soft Web has created many web-to-mobile apps in the tourism
and hospitality sectors and also has clients in the US, London and The
Netherlands.

 

\[caption id="attachment\_52" align="aligncenter"
width="538"\]![Greek-tech-savior-2](rw-import/greek2.jpg){.wp-image-52
width="538" height="538"} A Greek tech startup roundtable in
Athens\[/caption\]

I also spoke to Michalis Petrou, founder and creative director
of [Saintiago](https://nutrinsider.wix.com/saintiago), and creator
of [nutrINsider](https://www.nutrinsider.gr/), an all-in-one supermarket
app, which organizes supermarket shopping through lists of products and
provides nutritional advice. It also helps manufacturers to reach
consumers with branded shopping offers, relevant recipes** **and other
useful information at the point of purchase. The app was awarded “App of
the Year 2015” by Infocom Mobile World and received a Silver award in
the CYTA Mobile Excellence Awards 2015. Petrou has a background in
advertising and was in a good position to work in retail technology.

Like everywhere else, there's a high danger of failure with startups in
Greece as well,. But that a lack of other options for many people meant
that they were more likely to start their own business. "You've
literally got nothing to lose in starting a startup when there's no work
anyway," Petrou says.

With an educated and innovative workforce, and great traction with angel
investors through structures like [EVEA Business Angels
Network](https://www.businessangelsgreece.gr/) and [Angels Group by
StartTech Ventures Incubation
Fund](https://blog.starttechventures.com/?p=934), it's clear that
Greece's startup sector is healthy. With their reputation growing, we
soon might see people emigrating *to* Greece to join the burgeoning tech
scene.
