---
layout: post
title: 'Calm, cruel and connected: June’s best and worst of IoT'
date: 2016-06-29 08:00:14.000000000 +02:00
type: post
published: true
publication_url: null
categories:
  - Cate
  - writing
  - readwrite
  - Connected Devices
  - Industrial
tags:
  - audio
  - Bluetooth
  - Cornetto
  - featured
  - Google
  - Internet of Things
  - IoT
  - mattress
  - Netflix
  - ocean
  - Optus
  - sharks
  - smart bed
  - smart glasses
  - smart kitchen
  - SmartPlate
  - Smarttress
  - top
  - Tzukuri
  - wearables
meta:
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-exclude: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-standout: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-editors-pick: 'off'
  _edit_last: '550'
  _oembed_2490782be0040c6834d1c9b38cf488bc: "{{unknown}}"
  _oembed_2d42870ef652bd823eb6b20ddf2f9086: "{{unknown}}"
  _wpuf_form_id: ''
  _disabel_wpdevart_facebook_comment: enable
  _yoast_wpseo_primary_category: '7084'
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskeywords: "[]"
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskw_text_input: connected
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskw: connected
  _yoast_wpseo_title: 'Calm, cruel and connected: June’s best and worst of IoT'
  _yoast_wpseo_linkdex: '76'
  _yoast_wpseo_metadesc: There's a lot of IoT concepts out there. And in our monthly
    roundup, we tell you what should be connected...and what shouldn't.
  _thumbnail_id: '1471'
  rp4wp_auto_linked: '1'
  rp4wp_cached: '1'
  _is_empty_after_transformation: 'no'
  _has_warnings_after_transformation: 'yes'
author:
  login: cate-lawrence
  email: cate@atravellingcook.com
  display_name: Cate Lawrence
  first_name: Cate
  last_name: Lawrence
---
It seems that every day a new IoT device or means to connect existing
devices is revealed. With so much energy in being devoted to tell us
how, when, where, what we can connect to each other, the “why” may be
getting a little blurry. So we want to take a step back every now
and[take a critical
look](https://readwrite.com/2016/05/01/best-and-worst-iot-week-vr1/) at
the connected devices that actually go out and buy, right now.

*(Ed note: We also do a [round-up of
crowdfunding](https://readwrite.com/2016/04/24/crowdfunding-iot-projects-watch-week-dl1/) ideas
you can’t quite get yet…or possibly should never be able to
get.) *Here’s what caught our eye, for all the right – or wrong –
reasons:

Tzukuri
-------

![tortoise-front-3c4f21d2788e1f93f77bb2d34479a6f6-1024x728
(1)](rw-import/tortoise-front-3c4f21d2788e1f93f77bb2d34479a6f6-1024x728-1.jpg){.alignnone
.size-full .wp-image-3453 width="915" height="472"}

If you're the kind of person who likes to wear expensive designer
sunglasses, then these smart sunglasses by Sydney
company [Tzukuri](https://www.tzukuri.com/) are for you.  The
Bluetooth-powered sunglasses are embedded with a tiny beacon on one arm
and connected to an app which will send you a series of notifications if
your sunglasses are away from you - unless you clear the notifications -
and will show you how far away they are to help you find them. If
they're not in range, it'll show you their last location on a map.

They need periodic charging and at \$425 the makers predict they'll last
a few years. I can see this technology being applied to prescription
glasses and various headsets in the future.

**Verdict: Hit**

SmartPlate
----------

![smart-palte](rw-import/smart-palte.png){.size-full
.wp-image-3464 .aligncenter width="530" height="530"}

 

The [SmartPlate](https://getsmartplate.com/) is one of a number of
calorie controlling devices that aim to monitor and  track your eating
habits. It is the world’ marketed as the "world's first"Wi-Fi and
Bluetooth-enabled device that instantly tracks and analyzes everything
you eat, so you never have to enter anything manually again.
The SmartPlate is equipped with 3 mini-cameras (e.g. like the ones
currently used in smartphones) and uses advanced object recognition to
identify everything sitting on its surface. It also comes with super
accurate weight sensors which enable it to weigh up to three pounds of
food at once. It then combines both the image and the weight, and sends
this information to the USDA's database of over 8,000 household foods
for analysis in only a few seconds.

The purpose of the plate is commendable and it's integration with Fitbit
is strategic. I like that it is gradually learning to calories count
'mixed' foods through algorithms. But it's questionable whether (like
many fitness wearables) consumers will stick to using the plate after
the initial period post purchase. It's reminiscent of the earlier the
[Hapifork](https://www.hapi.com/product/hapifork) in using connected
technology to manage eating. It's success is relying on the consumer to
want to continue to count calories, a method that has been[bought into
question](https://www.npr.org/sections/thesalt/2016/06/07/481094825/a-neuroscientist-tackles-why-diets-make-us-fat)by
a range of obesity experts. It retails at \$120 and it is perhaps a
precursor of future products that integrate a more inclusive notion of
health including psychological support.

**Verdict: Miss**

Clever Buoy
-----------

<div class="video-caption-wrapper">

<div class="video-caption">

![clever-buoy](rw-import/clever-buoy.png){.size-full
.wp-image-3450 .aligncenter width="750" height="501"}

Australia has four times more fatal shark attacks than any other
country. Yet shark defence methods haven’t changed in over 60 years.
[Clever Buoy](https://cleverbuoy.com.au/) is a smart ocean buoy that
detects sharks and sends instant alerts to lifeguards via the Optus
Network. The system is designed to be deployed at beaches that have a
potential threat of shark attack. It's funded by teleco Optus, in
partnership with Google

The technology utilises a combination of newly developed sonar
interrogation software and satellite communications that will provide
critical warning systems to beach users and vital information to shark
researchers around the globe.

The Clever Buoy uses sophisticated software that differentiates between
the length of an object, and its propulsion through the water. In
testing it has been identified that sharks create a distinctive sonar
signature and swimming pattern that is different to mammals. The
development is similar to the development of ‘face recognition’ software
in humans.

The detection system has been in development over the past two years
with testing in controlled and wild environments. The technology has the
potential to revolutionise beach safety and provide real time
information to beach and ocean users. Future versions of the Clever Buoy
are expected to be self-sustaining for power, by way of solar or
potentially wave power.

**Verdict: Hit**

</div>

The SubPac
----------

![subpac](rw-import/subpac-1024x683.jpg){.alignnone
.size-large .wp-image-3465 width="1024" height="683"}

Thanks to [recent exposure in the NBA
playoffs](https://readwrite.com/2016/06/22/subpac-nba-promo-vt4/), t[he
Subpack](https://thesubpac.com/subpac-m2/) may be about to take off. It's
a wearable audio device worn like a backpack. It weighs just over two
kilos (4.5 pounds) with a SubPac bass thumper that sits on your back.
It's marketed as delivering a great music experience through the unit's
vibrotactile membranes while remaining low volume to those nearby. The
idea is a tactile experience of feeling the music. The materials have
also been treated with nano silver to keep bacteria and odour in check
during active use.

It's priced at \$329, and at a time when audio devices are getting
smaller and equally refined like the [Noveto
Systems](https://readwrite.com/2016/03/04/new-sound-experience/) device,
it just seems like a heavy, sweaty weight, not unlike people who walk
around in public with their own boom box, seeking attention of passers
by. You'd really have to work out like a professional athlete to make it
worth it.

**Verdict: Miss**

</div>

Series Commitment Rings
-----------------------

![Commitment-Rings-App](rw-import/Commitment-Rings-App.jpg){.size-full
.wp-image-3454 .aligncenter width="720" height="720"}

<div class="panel">

Ice cream company Cornetto has created an interesting gimmick product,
the [Series Commitment Rings](https://seriescommitment.com/#), aimed at
preventing one half of a relationship from forging ahead with a shared
television program without the company of the other.

The Commitment Rings have NFC technology and are linked to a video
streaming service account for six months. With its mobile app, couples
can pick the series they want to watch together. When the rings are
close to each other, the app detects them and automatically unblocks
those series. The company is still in negotiation with the streaming
companies and it's unclear how many rings will be distributed  - -
presumably the purchase of an ice cream is involved - - but it's a fun
idea.

**Verdict: Hit**

</div>

Smarttress
----------

![smartress1-600x343](rw-import/smartress1-600x343.jpg){.size-full
.wp-image-3455 .aligncenter width="600" height="343"}

Another connected device with the theme of infidelity, Smarttress - -
made by Spain's Durmet - - is a [smart
mattress](https://www.smarttress.com/en/) designed to keep an eye on your
spouse. Based on the assumption of a cheating partner, the mattress
contains a "lover detection system" of vibration censors and a “contact
zones detector" that is able to send an alert to your mobile phone when
your bed is being used in a "questionable way" which includes how fast
the bed is moving. It retails at \$1,750, making it far cheaper to
install the best hidden camera ever. Or, you know, just use a hotel. Or
maybe it's just cheaper than hiring a private investigator?

**Verdict: Miss**
