---
layout: post
title: How the Euro Cup is keeping connected devices in the game
date: 2016-07-09 12:00:45.000000000 +02:00
type: post
published: true
publication_url: null
categories:
  - Cate
  - writing
  - readwrite
  - Connected Devices
tags:
  - Adidas
  - analytics
  - EuroCup
  - football
  - football boots
  - InsideCoach
  - Internet of Things
  - IoT
  - Lenovo
  - miCoach
  - Qualcomm
  - speed cell
  - sports coaching
  - STAT sports
  - UEFA
  - wearables
meta:
  _edit_last: '550'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-exclude: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-standout: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-editors-pick: 'off'
  _wpuf_form_id: ''
  _disabel_wpdevart_facebook_comment: enable
  _yoast_wpseo_primary_category: ''
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskeywords: "[]"
  _thumbnail_id: '4095'
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskw_text_input: Euro
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskw: Euro
  _yoast_wpseo_title: How the Euro Cup is keeping connected devices in the game
  _yoast_wpseo_metadesc: Teams at this year's UEFA European Championships   - the Euro
    Cup   - now have the benefit from a lot of new wearables and other connected devices.
  _yoast_wpseo_linkdex: '75'
  rp4wp_auto_linked: '1'
  rp4wp_cached: '1'
  _is_empty_after_transformation: 'no'
  _has_warnings_after_transformation: 'no'
author:
  login: cate-lawrence
  email: cate@atravellingcook.com
  display_name: Cate Lawrence
  first_name: Cate
  last_name: Lawrence
---
While the media buzz around wearables has died down somewhat, due in
part to the noise of VR and AR, they still have a place to play.

I live in Germany where *Fußball* - - you call it soccer or football - -
is the national passion. Every *spati,* or convenience store, and bar
and cafe for miles has hired a big screen television, invariably
situated outside surrounded by tables of beer drinking. Amongst
the paraphernalia, there's a slew of devices in operation in both bring
the game closer to fans and tracking and improving the performance of
players.

In April this year, the third workshop of the Electronic Performance
Tracking Systems (EPTS) expert group took place. The participants
represent top leagues, professional clubs and national teams, as well as
the [IFAB](https://www.theifab.com/#!/home) (International Football
Association Board) and [FIFA](https://www.fifa.com/index.html)
(Fédération Internationale de Football Association).

The aim of the expert group is to develop a global standard for EPTS
devices, including wearable technology systems. The IFAB approved the
use of EPTS devices in principle in March 2015 and gave FIFA’s Football
Technology Innovation Department the mandate to develop a global
standard for such devices.

Then in July 2015, FIFA [issued a
memorandum](https://resources.fifa.com/mm/document/affederation/administration/02/66/27/59/circularno.1494-approvalofelectronicperformanceandtrackingsystem(epts)devices_neutral.pdf) approving
the use of  wearable electronic performance and tracking systems in
matches.

Here are some of the ways wearables are bringing advanced analytics to
football.

Intelligent shin pads
---------------------

![shinguard-3-350px](rw-import/shinguard-3-350px.jpg){.size-full
.wp-image-3997 .aligncenter width="350" height="356"}

Spanish carbon fiber company[Carbures](https://en.carbures.com/)has
created "intelligent" shin-pads made up of a sensor system and carbon
fibre parts for the uniform of the Spanish national football team. An
built-in sensor system registers personalized information for each
player in every match  - - including the amount of hits received and the
strength of each hit - - creating a unique profile for each player. They
also assist the team manager when making decisions for matches. The
shin-pads register all the data relative to the performance of the
players in the playing field, for instance, with which leg they kick the
ball, the speed of the hit, the distance travelled in the match or
during part of the game, offering key data to the technical staff.

miCoach
-------

![248A05C700000578-2902431-image-a-5\_1420812988599](rw-import/248A05C700000578-2902431-image-a-5_1420812988599.jpg){.size-full
.wp-image-4088 .aligncenter width="634" height="513"}

It was revealed at CES last year that the German national squad wore
adidas' miCoach technology during training sessions before and during
the World Cup in Brazil. Darcy Norman, a performance data analyst with
the German national team revealed that the data would be analyzed after
training sessions to see how exactly each athlete performed. Coaches
then used the information to plan future workouts more effectively and
make better personnel decisions. “We quantify the training sessions to
get some benchmark to then have meaningful conversations,” said Norman,
when
we [spoke ](https://readwrite.com/2016/06/07/exos-and-intel-bring-meaning-to-wearables-data-vt4/)earlier
this year.

Viper Pod
---------

![13522737\_1037838406284360\_4707765944905903751\_o](rw-import/13522737_1037838406284360_4707765944905903751_o-1024x683.jpg){.wp-image-4089
.aligncenter width="630" height="420"}\
STATSports’ [Viper Pod](https://statsports.com/technology/viper-pod/) is
one of the world’s leading performance monitoring tools for football. It
includes building sensors into clothes that players can wear on the
training ground or even in matches. It's packed with a GPS module, a
series of motion sensors and a heart rate receiver and allows coaches to
manage squad training loads from pre-season right through the entire
season to effectively manage player conditioning levels and preventing
injuries. It monitors valuable metrics such as distance, speed,
acceleration, step balance and heart rate and can also report collisions
and player fatigue. Clients include the National Football teams of
Croatia, England, Northern Island, Wales and Poland.

Smart Footballs
---------------

![G83963\_44\_detail](rw-import/G83963_44_detail-1024x1024.jpg){.wp-image-4033
.aligncenter width="640" height="640"}

As part of the [Adidas](https://www.adidas.com/)' miCoach collection,
they also retail a[smart
football](https://www.adidas.de/micoach-smart-ball/G83963.html?cm_mmc=AdieSEM_Google-_-miCoach-Accessories-SB-Exact-_-Accessories-miCoach_Smart_Ball-X-General-_-micoach+smart+ball&cm_mmca1=DE&cm_mmca2=e&ds_kid=43700006851569569&gclid=Cj0KEQjwte27BRCM6vjIidHvnKQBEiQAC4MzrRajWwQ63DYxZ5Fe3WtT4HsE97eOTIr4amtpIoXyLJ8aAilk8P8HAQ&gclsrc=aw.ds)
with motion sensors that collects data on speed, twist, strength and
trajectory and are the shot data instantly, via Bluetooth 4.0, on to the
miCoach Smart Ball app. The accompanying app interprets and outputs the
data in near real-time feedback on the force, twist, strength and
trajectory again. It also includes instructions about control properties
with drills, training tips and suggestions that your contact with the
ball and your ball handling improved. It's priced at at \$220 and is
available to fans and players.

 

![Inside-Coach-Smart-Soccer-Ball-Price](rw-import/Inside-Coach-Smart-Soccer-Ball-Price.png){.wp-image-4093
.aligncenter width="541"
height="465"}[InsideCoach](https://www.insidecoach.com/#!product-page/gba22)
also offers a smart football[ which contains motion detection technology
that records force of impact, spin, position, trajectory, number of ball
passes, number of ball touches, play time, and reports directly to your
mobile device in real time, making it your own personal coach on the
field. It's unclear whether any of the players are using the ball, but
it could be likely in the future. ]{.color_14}

Smart leggings
--------------

![20160222\_132656\_HDR-1024x576](rw-import/20160222_132656_HDR-1024x576-1024x576.jpg){.wp-image-4094
.aligncenter width="694" height="391"}

Earlier this year at Mobile World Congress,
[Qualcomm](https://www.qualcomm.com/) introduced a smart clothing
prototype, [smart
leggings](https://www.qualcomm.com/news/snapdragon/2016/02/29/snapdragon-powers-winning-devices-mobile-world-congress)
with five sensors packed into the ankle, knee and base of the spine of
the clothing. The sensors enable data to be sent over Bluetooth to a
smartphone in real-time which could provide a team manager with insight
about the positioning of multiple players as well as track data about
their physical condition which could assist in player formation
decisions and the like. It is only a prototype now but could be a useful
tool in the future.

And...smart football boots?
---------------------------

![F50\_MICOACH\_RT3](rw-import/F50_MICOACH_RT3-1024x682.jpg){.wp-image-4049
.aligncenter width="678" height="452"}

Are smart football boots the one form of wearables that are noticeably
absent? In 2011, Adidas released [speed
cell](https://www.adidas.de/micoach-speed_cell-bluetooth-smart-kompatibel/G75090.html),
a device that clipped into the sole or lacing of football boots. It was
designed to store up to 50 unique workouts with a corresponding apps.

The chip uses intelligent sensors to detect when the user is performing
their activity and can capture 360° movement and measure speed, average
speed, maximum speed, number of sprints, distance travelled, distance at
high intensity levels and stride rates. However, it seems to be a
product before its time with consumer reviews detailing connectivity and
battery problems as late as 2015.

No one company has come up with smart football boots that have been
played in football matches. However at Tech World 2016 this year in
China, Lenovo unveiled[a smart sports shoe
prototype](https://news.lenovo.com/news-releases/lenovo-unveils-smartphones-that-reshape-whats-possible-vision-for-connected-devices-at-tech-world-2016.htm)that
contains an Intel Curie wearable chip. It contained the ability to count
steps and tracks calories burned, lights up along the bottom, and
contains a customizable 3D-printed insole. It can also charge wirelessly
if placed it on a shoe-sized charging panel. Could it be the beginning
of smarter shoes?

Ultimately, we can't yet say that wearables are the difference between
winning and losing a football match. But their role in training cannot
be ignored, especially as data analytics is used to improve the fitness
and skills of both individual players and teams as a whole. It'll be
interesting to see who is in the final and whether their wearables are
revealed.
