---
layout: post
title: 'Cisco Acquires Jasper:'
date: 2016-02-18 17:59:03.000000000 +01:00
type: post
published: true
publication_url: null
categories:
  - Cate
  - writing
  - readwrite
  - Deals
  - Grow
tags:
  - acquisition
  - Cisco
  - IoT
  - Jasper
  - linksys
meta:
  _thumbnail_id: '136618068183950940'
  dpsp_networks_shares: a:3:{s:8:"linkedin";i:0;s:6:"reddit";i:0;s:11:"google-plus";i:0;}
  _edit_last: '549'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-exclude: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-standout: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-editors-pick: 'off'
  rp4wp_cached: '1'
  _is_empty_after_transformation: 'no'
  _has_warnings_after_transformation: 'no'
author:
  login: cate-lawrence
  email: cate@atravellingcook.com
  display_name: Cate Lawrence
  first_name: Cate
  last_name: Lawrence
excerpt: Where does this fit in Cisco's long history of acquisitions?
---
Cisco announced recently that it was buying Jasper Technologies for
\$1.4 billion. Jasper's IoT platform enables thousands of companies to
launch, manage and monetize IoT services on a global scale. They
specialize in managing the wireless connections and billing
relationships with the cellular carriers needed for IoT applications.

Jasper has a broad geographic reach of more than 3,500 customers in more
than 100 countries. They currently partner with 27 mobile operator
groups, representing more than 100 mobile operator networks worldwide.
Their technology is present in a diverse range of applications. It
enables drivers to remotely unlock doors, start the engine or call
emergency roadside assistance in cars from Ford and Nissan. Amazon
Kindle readers can get e-books delivered over the Internet through its
software. Heineken NV uses it to monitor beer quality and keg levels.
General Electric Co. jet engines connected via Jasper technology deliver
performance data to maintenance engineers on the ground, reducing costs.

I spoke to Macario Namie, Jasper's VP of strategy, about the acquisition
and was interested in how he thought it would benefit Jasper

"They have assets, funding, product portfolio and frankly, they believe
in us and want to support the vision of what we want to achieve," said
Namie. "We want to be the winner in IoT and this will help really make
this happen in what is arguably the next generation of the Internet. "

He emphasized that they would continue to operate as a standalone team
as part of Cisco’s new IoT business unit. "They are buying the Jasper
team, all of us are coming over to form a dedicated business unit, and
will take our current business and continue to perform well at it and
accelerate our vision of what it takes to build connected services and
businesses"

I was curious about if there were any concerns as Cisco has an
interesting history in acquiring innovative businesses. Cisco has bought
over 140 companies including forty-one during 1999-2000. Some
acquisitions have been highly successful while others have failed. 

Cisco acquired Monterey Networks for half a billion dollars in 1999.
Within days of the deal, all three of Monterey’s founders left the
company and eighteen months later Cisco shut down the business
altogether, taking \$108 million in write-offs.

Linksys was acquired in 2003 for a deal valued half a billion dollars.
It was to be operated as an autonomous division of Cisco, its products
sold under the Linksys brand through its existing retail, distributor
and e-commerce channels and was a move into the home networking consumer
market. 10 years later it was sold to Belkin. 

Cisco bought Pure Digital Technologies, maker of the Flip video cameras
in 2008 for \$590 million. While it could be considered an effort to
complement its consumer electronics portfolio, it seemed a bit
incongruous compared to its core enterprise networking focus. Two years
later, it closed Flip's business unit and cut 550 employees.

"There's always a nagging concern, can the magic still remain," admit
Namie, "A lot of times it doesn’t work but what gives me a lot of hope
here of a successful acquisition is our standalone team The general
manager will be the current Jasper founder. We will have our own
engineering team, marketing, and sales. The magic that's created today
will remain. So much of the world's internet traffic runs on Cisco. We
layer onto what they’ve already done with a software model and a
recurring revenue model." 

The acquisition on paper reads as a mutual win for both Jasper and
Cisco. Cisco will continue to build upon the Jasper IoT service platform
and add new IoT services such as enterprise Wi-Fi, security for
connected devices, and advanced analytics to better manage device usage.
Jasper will have increased scope from the funding and a shared vision.
Both companies are currently in transition, waiting for regulatory
approval and are looking to join forces in by early April. Whether the
companies can create a lasting, beneficial symbiotic relationship will
be interesting to see. 
