---
layout: post
title: 'Calm, cruel and connected: August''s best and worst of IoT'
date: 2016-08-31 13:00:08.000000000 +02:00
type: post
published: true
publication_url: null
categories:
  - Cate
  - writing
  - readwrite
  - Connected Devices
  - Health
tags:
  - COWAROBOT
  - Crowd Funding
  - Fareed Zakaria
  - haptic technology
  - Indiegogo
  - Kickstarter
  - Kiss Phone
  - Mine Kafon Drone
  - Omega 2
  - robotics
  - Super Brain II
  - VylyV
  - wearable devices
  - wearables
meta:
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-exclude: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-standout: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-editors-pick: 'off'
  _edit_last: '550'
  _wpuf_form_id: ''
  _disabel_wpdevart_facebook_comment: enable
  _yoast_wpseo_primary_category: '7090'
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskeywords: "[]"
  _thumbnail_id: '4704'
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskw_text_input: cruel
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskw: cruel
  _yoast_wpseo_title: 'Calm, cruel and connected: August''s best and worst of IoT'
  _yoast_wpseo_metadesc: Our monthly roundup to the highs and lows, the zeniths and
    nadirs, of the crazy and cruel, wild and wonderful world of crowdfunded IoT ideas.
  _yoast_wpseo_linkdex: '76'
  rp4wp_cached: '1'
  rp4wp_auto_linked: '1'
  _is_empty_after_transformation: 'no'
  _has_warnings_after_transformation: 'no'
author:
  login: cate-lawrence
  email: cate@atravellingcook.com
  display_name: Cate Lawrence
  first_name: Cate
  last_name: Lawrence
---
Crowdfunding is a noisy, cruel and crowded place, particularly in
hardware where some ideas soar to great fruition and others bomb
abysmally. There there's those that leverage a decent amount of support
but are hampered by long delays. Many of those funded struggle to scale
and bring their creations to market in a timely manner, leaving the
crowdfunders impatient and frustrated.

But it's worth remembering that crowdfunding is an egalitarian market
place with a few gems and a few products that are just so bizarre they
blow my mind, [particularly in the IoT
space](https://readwrite.com/2016/07/31/calm-cruel-connected-julys-best-worst-iot/).

So take a look at these:

 

Mine Kafon Drone
----------------

![the-mine-kafon-drone](rw-import/the-mine-kafon-drone-1024x576.jpg){.size-large
.wp-image-5992 .aligncenter width="1024" height="576"}

With the proliferation of air strikes and chemical warfare, it would be
easy to think of land mines as a problem of another era. Yet every day
at least 10 people around the world lose their life or limb to a
landmine or another explosive remnant of war with over [60
countries](https://www.icbl.org/en-gb/the-treaty/treaty-status.aspx "Treaty Status")
around the world  contaminated by landmines. Pokemon Go players in
Bosnia have even been warned to[avoid certain
areas](https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2016/jul/20/pokemon-go-players-in-bosnia-warned-to-steer-clear-of-landmines)
which may be home to unexploded mines.

Up until now, traditional de-mining systems have been operated by humans
or animals and are costly and slow, not to mention dangerous. The [Mine
Kafon
Drone](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/massoudhassani/mine-kafon-drone?ref=category)(MKD)
flies over dangerous areas to map, detect and detonate landmines from a
safe distance. The drone works autonomously equipped with three separate
interchangeable robotic extensions.

These three methodologies combined makes the MKD up to 20 times faster
than traditional de-mining technologies. As well as being safer, it also
up to 200 times cheaper. MKD has several working prototypes which have
been tested extensively, including tests in conjunction with the Dutch
Ministry of Defense. This project is a fantastic example of IoT
technology being used to solve a critical problem.

*Verdict: HUGE Hit*

Super Brain II
--------------

![tumblr\_inline\_oaqj94KzpO1ra7u74\_540](rw-import/tumblr_inline_oaqj94KzpO1ra7u74_540.jpg){.size-full
.wp-image-5995 .aligncenter width="540" height="304"}

The trend of wearables to aid sleep have been matched by those that aim
to help us focus our busy minds when undertaking important work. [Super
Brain
II](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/1987764045/super-brain-ii?ref=category_popular)
claims to act as an alternative to "costly smart drugs," a problem
compounded, according to the product's creator:

>  "...because smart drugs are too expensive in some countries, the
> issue has been raised that students from wealthy families have an
> advantage over students from ordinary households in achieving good
> grades."

Super Brain Ⅱ is a brain wave focused device that utilizes a magnetic
headband. The creators claim it stimulates the creation of alpha, SMR,
theta and delta waves by altering the frequency of magnetic fields. It's
based on the findings of [Dr Robert O.
Becker](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_O._Becker), anti-EMF
(electro magnetic field) activist, researcher and surgeon. The creators
appear particularly encouraged by his research on cats that found they
react significantly to magnetic influence.

I struggled through the promo video so you don't have to - - a true act
of endurance, thanks to the creepy background muzak that plays on a loop
and the audio voiceover that fails to sync with the presenter's mouth
movements. The rather unfortunate 70's-looking wearable headband is not
helped by the people dancing in the meadows whilst wearing it in the
video.

[Transcranial Magnet
Stimulation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transcranial_magnetic_stimulation) has
been used since 2008 to treat  serious, pervasive conditions like
chronic pain, pharmaceutical resistant depression, fibromyalgia, OCD,
Parkinson's, and schizophrenia. It however relies on ongoing treatment
under the management of a health professional. While there is nothing
intrinsically dangerous with Super Brain II's low voltage device, there
is no compelling argument as to its efficacy considering devices in a
medical setting rely on large machinery to be able to get through the
skin and skull of the brain.

The product previously sort funding as "Super Brain I" but according to
the creators, it was suspended as they send too many messages that were
"considered spam."

*Verdict: Miss *

Omega 2
-------

![6c15c56111eae091b957a1640ea8e56e\_original](rw-import/6c15c56111eae091b957a1640ea8e56e_original.png){.size-full
.wp-image-5991 .aligncenter width="680" height="452"}

[Omega
2](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/onion/omega2-5-iot-computer-with-wi-fi-powered-by-linux?ref=home_featured)
is a Linux computer designed specifically for building connected
hardware applications. It combines the tiny form factor and power
efficiency of the Arduino with the power and flexibilities of the
Raspberry Pi. Sure there are a plethora of tiny computers floating
around, but at this kind of price, even if you never end up using it
yourself, having it sit in a prominent place in your office just might
inspire someone else to create something awesome.

*Verdict: Hit*

VylyV
-----

![digital-pelvic-floor-trainer-shorts](rw-import/digital-pelvic-floor-trainer-shorts-1024x538.jpg){.size-large
.wp-image-5953 .aligncenter width="1024" height="538"}

You may recall I reviewed a wearable product called
[Elvie](https://readwrite.com/2016/07/31/calm-cruel-connected-julys-best-worst-iot/)
last month designed to provide exercise therapy for women with pelvic
floor dysfunction. Well, gender doesn't always discriminate, now there's
a connected pair of shorts that's designed to exercise male kegel
muscles with the aim of boosting the wearer's "manhood." The founder
Michael Wales, claims he hit on the idea after trying 20 penis
enlargement devices (yes, 20). We writers love a story and this is one
of the best bios I've read:

> "Founder Michael, an avid gym-goer and men’s health enthusiast, always
> believed that ‘bigger is better.’ After trying over 20 penis
> enlargement devices, he realized in 2014 that pelvic floor exercises
> are the best approach to boost manhood..."

The shorts come with some tall claims including their ability to
"entrench the hardness and glow with powerful ejaculations" and "unlock
the mysterious quest for the most wanted experience of multiple
orgasms." They are equipped with sensors and a wireless tracker and
there's a companion app where the player can train the character
"DerpBut" to run away from "HemorrhED."

You can even buy two or more pairs of shorts, enabling you to train
your, um, manhood, with your friends.

All puns and joking aside, exercising one's kegel muscles is a good
thing. But the requirement for a special pair of shorts seems rather
extraneous.

*Verdict: Miss*

COWAROBOT R1
------------

![the-cowarobot-r1-is-a-carryon-suitcase-that-automatically-follows-you\_1](rw-import/the-cowarobot-r1-is-a-carryon-suitcase-that-automatically-follows-you_1.jpg){.size-full
.wp-image-5994 .aligncenter width="720" height="479"}

Regular travelers know the pain of lugging around a wheelie suitcase. It
can not only leave you with a stiff shoulder or wrenched arm but also
the pain of longing for a hands free experience. Enter a robotic
suitcase that utilizes a camera sensor and Bluetooth to follow its owner
on their journey. The
[Cowarobot](https://www.indiegogo.com/projects/cowarobot-r1-the-first-and-only-robotic-suitcase-travel-technology--2#/)
moves at a speed of 4.5 mph and is equipped for 12.5 miles of walking
before needing a charge. It comes with a keyless locking function, can
charge your devices and is equipped to dodge obstacles in its path.

Its price is a not unreasonable \$400 and it's easy to predict such
suitcases becoming cheaper as they gain traction in the marketplace. If
it only came with silent wheels to avoid a 4 a.m. wakeup thanks to noisy
travelers walking on cobblestoned streets, it could be a huge hit.

*Verdict: Hit*

Kiss Phone
----------

![376306-kissinger-650](rw-import/376306-kissinger-650.jpg){.size-full
.wp-image-6007 .aligncenter width="650" height="366"}\
With the abundant range of projects one could run a crowdfunding
campaign for, it's bizarre to see one that has been tried but failed.
It's been a while since I wrote about the
[Kissenger](https://readwrite.com/2016/02/12/haptic-valentines-day/), a
connected device to send a kiss to someone far away. However the idea
hasn't gone away, with an idea by another for a few device, the Kiss
Phone described as "a great challenging idea which could reform the
world or at least move the behavior of people to a more colorized
direction."

To be fair, if you're the kind of person who likes to enter a project
from its earliest days, then this could be one for you follow. With the
trends in robotics and haptic technology, who knows how we'll show
affection in the future?!

*Verdict: Miss*
