---
layout: post
title: IoT now helping make smart wine?
date: 2016-04-04 15:00:26.000000000 +02:00
type: post
published: true
publication_url: null
categories:
  - Cate
  - writing
  - readwrite
  - Industrial
tags:
  - Agriculture
  - Connected Devices
  - Deepfield Robots
  - featured
  - Freight Farms
  - IoT
  - OnFarm
  - Rowbot
  - sensors
  - TracoVino
meta:
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-exclude: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-standout: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-editors-pick: 'off'
  _edit_last: '550'
  _oembed_c01e4daffacd4a8f79c5b7c2a28d5e69: "{{unknown}}"
  _disabel_wpdevart_facebook_comment: enable
  ninja_forms_edit_roles: a:2:{i:0;s:13:"administrator";i:1;s:6:"editor";}
  ninja_forms_edit_user_list: ''
  ninja_forms_edit_editor: _post_editor
  ninja_forms_edit_enable_editing: '1'
  ninja_forms_edit_override: ''
  ninja_forms_edit_delete: '0'
  ninja_forms_edit_title: '0'
  ninja_forms_edit_content: '0'
  ninja_forms_edit_categories:
  - Cate
  - writing
  - readwrite '0'
  ninja_forms_edit_tags: '0'
  ninja_forms_edit_status: '0'
  _yoast_wpseo_primary_category: '7088'
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskw_text_input: Smart Wine
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskw: Smart Wine
  _yoast_wpseo_linkdex: '75'
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskeywords: "[]"
  _yoast_wpseo_metadesc: IoT is transforming agriculture   - even hide-bound areas like
    wine-making   - through facilitating high precision crop control, data collection
    and automation
  _thumbnail_id: '394'
  rp4wp_cached: '1'
  _is_empty_after_transformation: 'no'
  _has_warnings_after_transformation: 'no'
author:
  login: cate-lawrence
  email: cate@atravellingcook.com
  display_name: Cate Lawrence
  first_name: Cate
  last_name: Lawrence
---
The Internet of Things (IoT) is transforming the agricultural industry
through facilitating high precision crop control, useful data collection
and automated farming, with an emphasis on water management, waste
reduction and cost effectiveness.  Today farms  can leverage IoT to
remotely monitor soil moisture, crop growth, smart connected harvesters
and irrigation equipment. Then farmers can analyze operational data
combined with 3rd party information, such as weather services, to
provide new insights and improve decision making.

**TracoVino**

An interesting area where this is occurring is in the business of
winemaking. German company
[MyOmega](https://www.myomegasys.com/index.php/mynxg/mynxg-iot-architecture)
has created  the solar powered [ IoT device
]{.goog-text-highlight}[TracoVino](https://www.myomegasys.com/index.php/new/178-tracovino),
with incorporates an  MYNXG controller and corresponding app to support
winemakers to improve the quality of their wines, optimize workflows and
to monitor vineyards remotely.

![mobiless](rw-import/mobiless.jpg){.alignnone
.size-full .wp-image-315 width="1024" height="542"}

 

Data is collected via solar powered sensor platforms installed in the
vineyard which record the temperature, air and soil humidity levels,
sunlight and light intensity. Extra sensors can be installed at any time
to measure leaf wetness, soil pH values and nutrient levels. The sensors
collected data which they send to the controller. Winemakers are then
able to access the data on their smartphones at any time.  Winemakers
are able to access forecasts for the condition of the vineyard,
potential pest infestation or the expected quality and quantity of the
wine at any time, and take suitable action.  The devices are currently
being trialled at a four Bavarian vineyards.

 

**Rowbot**

![RowbotInRow](rw-import/RowbotInRow.jpg){.size-full
.wp-image-318 .aligncenter width="400" height="602"}

Agricultural innovation is not limited to wine making. Rural start up
[Rowbot](https://rowbot.com/) has created a team of small robots to help
Corn growers.The problem facing many growers is that a rapidly growing
crop, mixed with uncertain field conditions, leads to situations where
in-season applications of nitrogen cannot be carried out as planned.
Constraints and worries linked to crop height keep many growers from
using in-season nitrogen management, a widely recognized best
practice.The Rowbots work in teams to apply nitrogen fertilizer in sync
with corn needs, inter-seed cover-crops into tall corn, and collect data
to inform both current and future work.

 

**Deepfield Robots**

[Deepfield Robotics](https://www.deepfield-robotics.com/), a start up
under Bosch has been working hard in Germany to solve the problems faced
by asparagus farmers.

The quality of asparagus depends heavily on the temperature of the
ground in which it’s grown. To control the temperature, farmers use a
two-sided sheet of foil: the black side draws in sunlight to increase
the heat of the asparagus bed, and the white side reflects light to cool
the bed down. In order to make the right “black or white” decision, the
farmer needs to measure the temperature of every field at least once
each evening.  Deepfield explains

> That’s where we come in. Our IoT system frequently measures the
> temperatures of the bed at different levels and stores the data in the
> cloud. Then we provide this information plus additional analysis in a
> front-end interface, accessible anywhere, anytime.

In April 2015 they installed ten prototypes in asparagus fields. These
prototypes provided just the basic functionality of storing temperatures
in the cloud. Using this as a starting point, they worked closely with
the farmers to develop their solution further, based on many interviews
with these pilot customers, four app updates and continuous back-end
improvement.  The result: twelve weeks later at the end of asparagus
season, the growth of 225,000 kg of asparagus.

 

**Freight Farms**

![Freight+Farms+Leafy+Green+Machine](rw-import/FreightFarmsLeafyGreenMachine.png){.alignnone
.size-full .wp-image-320 width="1000" height="693"}

For those situated in urban areas, Freight Farms  takes an innovative
approach to farming, growing crops inside repurposed shipping
containers, called Leafy Green Machines - literally
a freight-truck-sized farm-in-a-box, with all the necessary equipment
and storage required to grow produce.

The company takes an innovative approach to farming, growing crops
inside repurposed shipping containers, dubbed Leafy Green Machines. It
is hoped that the use of an IoT platform will allow for more detailed
monitoring of growing conditions in real-time.

By using LogMeIn’s IoT
platform[Xively](https://xively.com/whats_xively/?mcomb=s7NDde0Q879711957699xivelyei8rbbhb5l0c),
it enables farmers to assess their crops remotely, tracking features
such as temperature, humidity, CO2 levels and plant growth. Alerts are
delivered whenever any of these metrics fall out of the ideal growing
range. The data collected from users also enables Freight Farms to
improve their own services, giving them greater insight into how
customers are utilising their products. Container gardening is nothing
new in urban areas, but it's foreseeable that the water efficient
containers could be of benefit to regions where drought causes a barrier
to farming.

 

**OnFarm**

![lg\_map-903x1024](rw-import/lg_map-903x1024.png){.alignnone
.size-full .wp-image-321 width="903" height="1024"}

[OnFarm](https://www.onfarm.com/) is part of a suite of  IoT technology
platforms aimed at the farming industry. OnFarm’s software integrates
nearly any type of data from any provider; from real-time soil moisture
data to weather data, to image data. Users gain insight and guidance
that enables their farming organization to make better more informed
decisions resulting in immediate impact on farm inputs such as water,
energy, and labor while increasing profitability. OnFarm allows farmers
to have one solution to monitor, plan, and to make decisions reducing
the friction of adopting and maximizing technology.

It is clear that connected technology and data information is
instrumental to the future of farming, particularly in regard to
reducing water consumption and feeding the world's population. Sensors,
cloud computing and intelligent software all play a part in transforming
farming as we know it.
