---
layout: post
title: Have A Haptic Valentine's Day
date: 2016-02-12 17:32:05.000000000 +01:00
type: post
published: true
publication_url: null
categories:
  - Cate
  - writing
  - readwrite
  - Play
tags:
  - app discovery
  - Happy Couple
  - Hinge
  - Kissenger
  - Pillow Talk
  - Tinder
  - Whim
meta:
  _thumbnail_id: '136482669339944540'
  dpsp_networks_shares: a:3:{s:8:"linkedin";i:0;s:6:"reddit";i:0;s:11:"google-plus";i:0;}
  rp4wp_cached: '1'
  _is_empty_after_transformation: 'no'
  _has_warnings_after_transformation: 'no'
author:
  login: cate-lawrence
  email: cate@atravellingcook.com
  display_name: Cate Lawrence
  first_name: Cate
  last_name: Lawrence
excerpt: Technology and your love life? Sure!
---
Valentine's Day is almost upon us, the time when couples make up for a
year of passive aggression in a single evening. You're obviously
intelligent. You don't just do red roses and chocolates. It's the worst
evening to book a restaurant dinner. Here are some more interesting (but
SFW) options to keep the romance alive.

Pillow Talk
-----------

![](rw-import/MTM2NDc5MzI4MTIzNzU4MTc3.jpg)

[Pillow Talk](https://www.littleriot.com/pillow-talk/) brings back the
intimacy to long-distance relationships through the use of a wristband
that picks up your heartbeat and sends it, in real time, to your loved
one. They can listen to your heartbeat in your pillow and they can hear
yours.

It's the brainchild of UK entrepreneur Joanna Montgomery

> "It's amazing that we can constantly message each other on smart
> phones, or sit on video calls, but why shouldn't we be able to feel
> connected to our loved ones? We made Pillow Talk because emoticons and
> pixelated video calls just don't really cut it."

The Hug Shirt
-------------

![](rw-import/MTM2NDc5OTQ2ODY3NDg0MjU1.jpg)

The [HugShirt](https://cutecircuit.com/the-hug-shirt/) was invented by
Francesca Rosella and Ryan Genz, the co-founders of wearables fashion
house CuteCircuit.The shirt is embedded with sensors that feel the
strength, duration, and location of the touch, the skin warmth and the
heartbeat rate of the sender and actuators that recreate the sensation
of touch, warmth and emotion of the hug to the Hug Shirt of the distant
loved one. The Hug Shirt records a hug like you would record a movie and
delivers the data to your mobile via Bluetooth through the app and then
your hug is transmitted over the network to your partner's phone and it
is seamlessly transmitted via Bluetooth to their Hug Shirt.

Happy Couple
------------

![](rw-import/MTM2NDc4ODI4Mjk2OTM5MTA1.webp)

Happy Couple is a great quiz style app for getting to know your partner
better and facilitating greater communication between you and your loved
one. It's the brainchild of CEO and founder Julien Robert who I had the
pleasure of meeting last year in Helsinki. The game originated after
Julien's efforts in "applying start-up principles to my own
relationship" and really his own story is classic romance for tech
entrepreneurs: French Julien (serial entrepreneur) met his American
girlfriend Erin Johnson (former Google employee) on Tinder while living
in San Francisco. They moved in a month later and their relationship has
survived the challenge of visa restrictions, long-distance loving as
they now happily reside together in Berlin.

Unlike other start-ups, the team includes cofounder Dr. Lonnie Barbach,
a couple’s therapist and author of international best-sellers on sex and
relationships. She brings this expertise to the game’s content," Robert
says. The game's development including plenty of research including
hundreds of couples being interviewed on their relationships and being
sent weekly surveys for six months. It's a neat combination of
gamification and "deep and meaningful" content, including a quiz-style
game and daily tips and challenges. Last weekend it hit the number one
spot on French health and fitness chart for iPhone.

Kissenger
---------

![](rw-import/MTM2NDc5NzQyODU2NTM3Njk1.jpg)

[Kissenger](https://www.kissengers.com/) is possibly the weirdest
connected device I've seen yet. It's what the company likes to call
"embodied emotional communication hardware." The idea is that you kiss
away on your Kissinger and the touch-sensitive device sends the
movements to another Kissinger held by your distant loved one. That
Kissinger moves its own lips in response. The lips are made from
silicone and the kissing critter makes a sort of buzzing noise when it
replicates a smooch. I've heard it described as "a bit like kissing a
vibrator." If you're not sure what I'm actually talking about or just
want to know more, I'd encourage you to check out the
[video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zV4bUplyOIQ) for a giggle. It
could be worse, the original prototype featured [a cow and a
rabbit](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oSckuNlzQdM).

Eternity Wall
-------------

Want to make your message last forever? Whilst there's a certain romance
in carving your initials in a tree or naming a star after your beloved,
another way to declare your love is to embed in the block chain.
[Eternity Wall](https://eternitywall.it/) is a ledger of messages
embedded in the blockchain. There are over 5 thousands copies of this
ledger all around the world and soon it will also be in space. Even if
this site goes down or disappears, your message is guaranteed to persist
for generations to come.

Klikaklu
--------

![](rw-import/MTM2NDg0NTA4NjU5NjIzNTIx.jpg)

The awkwardly phonetically named [Klikaklu](https://www.klikaklu.com/)
app enables you to create a fun treasure hunt or geocaching event for
your partner without too much hard work. Include fun places you've spent
time together, some thoughtful clues and small gifts and end it with a
romantic picnic or dinner for two at featuring their favorite cuisine.

Single And Looking For Love?
----------------------------

![](rw-import/MTM2NDc5NDY1NTYyNzExNjQ3.jpg)

My friends tell me how hard it is being single in the age of Tinder. All
that time getting your hopes up for someone who is flaky or
unavailable...For those still looking for love, app
[Whim](https://joinwhim.com/) cuts to the chase and sets up actual dates
avoiding the risk of endless texting without ever meeting. Users plug in
when they’re free, who they like on the app, and when Whim finds two
mutually interested daters it arranges the meet. Only when users are set
up for a date in a mutually agreed upon time and place are they able to
chat. Creator Eve Peters formerly worked for OkCupid.

Less painful that a 'bring a single friend' party, dating app
[Hinge](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/hinge/id595287172?mt=8)matches
only users who share Facebook friends. Every day at noon, the app sends
a list of potential matches culled from one’s Facebook network.

Even Functional Tech Can Be Romantic
------------------------------------

![](rw-import/MTM2NDg1MDQzOTE5OTIyNzgz.jpg)

Are you wondering what I might like for Valentine's Day? As some of you
might know, I'm Australian and I live in Germany. Neither are countries
where Valentine's Day is celebrated to any extent.

I attracted a look of horror from my husband when I said my dream
Valentine's Day gift was a Roomba. Vacuuming is my most loathed cleaning
task and the notion that a robot could do it for me (perhaps even [with
the cat sitting on it](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mk4XB2wZqF4), the
cause of the need for vacuuming in the first place) is very pleasing.

Seriously, even the most functional of gadgets can be romantic if its
presented in the right way. A mobile that's already been set up with
lots of notes and photos. A camera full of happy snaps. A kindle full of
love poems and books by the recipient's favorite authors. Include a
[thoughtful
card](https://www.etsy.com/listing/176874265/romantic-card-valentine-card-iphone-card?ga_order=most_relevant&ga_search_type=all&ga_view_type=gallery&ga_search_query=there%20is%20no%20one%20i%27d%20rather%20lie%20in%20bed%20and%20look%20at%20my%20phone%20next%20to&ref=sr_gallery_1)
with the gift.And if you get it wrong, don't worry you've got 364 days
of being reminded of it to get it right for next year.
