---
layout: post
title: The Future of Wearables Is Implanted
date: 2016-02-19 17:26:16.000000000 +01:00
type: post
published: true
publication_url: null
categories:
  - Cate
  - writing
  - readwrite
  - Connected Devices
  - Wear
tags:
  - Implant
  - RFID Chip
  - The Brain
  - wearable
  - wearable technology
meta:
  _thumbnail_id: '136667167713207900'
  dpsp_networks_shares: a:3:{s:8:"linkedin";i:0;s:6:"reddit";i:0;s:11:"google-plus";i:0;}
  _edit_last: '549'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-exclude: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-standout: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-editors-pick: 'off'
  rp4wp_cached: '1'
  _is_empty_after_transformation: 'no'
  _has_warnings_after_transformation: 'no'
author:
  login: cate-lawrence
  email: cate@atravellingcook.com
  display_name: Cate Lawrence
  first_name: Cate
  last_name: Lawrence
excerpt: And more real today than you think
---
It's interesting how many people recoil at the idea of implanted
wearables. [Cochlear
implants](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cochlear_implant) have been
around since the 1980's, [contraceptive
implants](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Etonogestrel_contraceptive_implant)
since the late 1990's and a plethora of implanted devices have either
kept people alive or improved their quality of life from knee
replacements to pacemakers. Meanwhile, wearable devices are getting
smaller and smarter. It's only a small stretch of the imagination to
envisage a time of wearables worn subcutaneously (below the skin) and
monitored outside of the body. The relationship of technology and
science is a fascinating and are a few of the most innovative ways
implants are transforming the lives of many:

**Brain implants to treat major health conditions**

The manipulation of the brain through the use of technological devices
is accepted practice in serious conditions where medication and other
forms of treatment have been unsuccessful. Research into brain-based
disorders has lead to treatment like [Vagus nerve
stimulation](https://www.epilepsy.com/learn/treating-seizures-and-epilepsy/devices/vagus-nerve-stimulation-vns)
to treat severe epilepsy. Psychiatric neuro-technology researchers are
focused on [Transcranial direct current
stimulation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transcranial_direct-current_stimulation)
and [Transcranial Magnet
Stimulation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transcranial_magnetic_stimulation)
to treat conditions like chronic pain, pharmaceutical resistant
depression, fibromyalgia, OCD, Parkinson's, and schizophrenia.

![](rw-import/MTM2NjQxNzkxNDM1NzQ0ODYz.jpg)\

Deep brain stimulation

Deep brain stimulation
----------------------

Taking this a step further, deep electrical stimulation of the brain
(otherwise known as [deep brain
stimulation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deep_brain_stimulation)) can
treat [severe
OCD,](https://america.aljazeera.com/watch/shows/america-tonight/articles/2015/3/13/ocd-patient-brain-implant-gave-me-a-chance-at-happiness.html)
depression and [a range of other
disorders](https://www.technologyreview.com/s/542176/a-shocking-way-to-fix-the-brain/),
enabling health professionals to target the specific parts of the brain
which cause particular disorders. Electrodes are implanted into the
brain and a device incorporating a battery and pulse generator is
implanted into the chest or abdomen with wires to the skull connecting
the electrodes. When turned on, the device emits an electrical current
that stimulates the neural fibers carrying information from primitive
brain areas associated with motivation to the frontal lobe.

It's foreseeable to envision a time when other parts of the brain are
better understood and implants are at the forefront curing a range of
brain disorders. Some speculate that implants to improve[memory and
intelligence](https://www.extremetech.com/extreme/186444-us-scientists-push-ahead-with-memory-boosting-brain-implants-but-we-still-have-to-crack-the-brains-code-first)
could be closer than we think and offer opportunities for developers
looking for a new challenge.

**Brain implants to treat paralysis**
-------------------------------------

![](rw-import/MTM2NjQ0Nzg1Mjk2NTgyMjM5.webp)

A group of Melbourne scientists has made the notion of wirelessly
controlled limbs closer to reality through the development of a tiny,
matchstick-sized device called a
[stentrode](https://pursuit.unimelb.edu.au/articles/moving-with-the-power-of-thought).
Once implanted into a blood vessel next to the motor cortex, the brain’s
control centre, it will pick up brain signals and allow patients to move
a robotic exoskeleton attached to their limbs simply by thinking about
it. It picks up strong electrical frequencies emitted by the brain that
are coded into a computer. The computer then sends a signal to an
exoskeleton attached to the arms or legs, enabling movement. The success
of the stentrobe is heightened due to its location - a blood vessel -
which eschews the need for complex brain surgery.

In late 2017, a select group of paralysed patients from the Royal
Melbourne and Austin Hospitals in Australia will be chosen for the
trial, where they will be implanted with the stentrode. If the trial
succeeds, the technology could become commercially available in as
little as six years.

**The Bionic eye is here**
--------------------------

Technology restoring sight and making super sight is here. In January
Rhian Lewis, legally blind had a tiny electronic chip implanted at the
back of the retina in her right eye.  

![](rw-import/MTM2NjQ1MTI1OTQwOTc5Mjk3.jpg)

[A wafer-thin retinal implant
chip](https://oxfordbrc.nihr.ac.uk/blind-womans-joy-as-she-reads-the-time-thanks-to-bionic-eye/)
was inserted into the back of the eye to replace damaged photoreceptors.
The chip captures the light entering the eye to stimulate the nerve
cells of the inner retina to deliver signals to the brain through the
optic nerve. The device is connected to a tiny computer that sits
underneath the skin behind the ear. This is powered by a magnetic coil
which is applied to the skin – from the outside, this looks similar to a
hearing aid. The device is switched on once everything has healed up
after the surgery. Using dials on a small wireless power supply held in
the hand, Rhian can adjust the sensitivity, contrast and frequency to
obtain the best possible signal for different conditions.

![](rw-import/MTM2NjY2MjY4NDU0MzY0NzY5.jpg)

Another option for those tired of wearing glasses is the Bionic Lens,
the brainchild of the [Ocumetics Technology
Corp](https://ocumetics.com/), a company who want to eliminate glasses
and contact lenses forever. T[he Ocumetics Bionic
Lens](https://ocumetics.com/) is the result of eight years of research
and \$3 million in funding and lets you see “three times better than
20/20 vision” without wearing any contacts or glasses at all — for an
entire lifetime. Amazingly the surgery is estimated to cost around
\$3,200 per eye with approval predicted to be between 2-5 years. 

**Contraceptive Microchip**
---------------------------

[MIT spinout Microchips
Biotech](https://news.mit.edu/2015/implantable-drug-delivery-microchip-device-0629)
has been working on a birth-control microchip, backed by the [Bill and
Melinda Gates Foundation](https://www.gatesfoundation.org/), that
releases contraceptives and can be turned on and off wirelessly. The
tiny chip has an antenna and battery and is designed to be implanted
under the skin, where it stores hormones and releases a precise dose at
scheduled intervals. Unlike other contraceptive devices, it does not
have to be removed when the woman wants to have children. It can be
turned on and off with a remote control.

**Wearable Implants Could Make Life Easier - Or More Complex**
--------------------------------------------------------------

Exploration into implanted RFID chips has been around for a while. A
chip implanted in the hand could [unlock
doors](https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-31042477), [start a
car](https://hackaday.com/2010/01/14/start-the-car-with-a-wave-of-your-hand/)
or be an alternative to a swipe card. It's easy to imagine the
contactless jacket embedded with a bPay chip being replaced by an
implant. But it could also verify a person's identity in case of an
emergency or during war time. It could be used to store a person's
medical records. A number of people have told me that the ease of
removing an RFID chip (with a scalpel presumably) could result in
identity or financial theft. Others raise the issues of hacking and
long-term medical complications caused by implants. But regardless of
resistance, this technology is here, it is being used successfully for a
range of purposes and it will be an integral part of wearables of the
future.
