---
layout: post
title: Are Robots Replacing Humans In Customer Care?
date: 2016-04-24 13:00:30.000000000 +02:00
type: post
published: true
publication_url: null
categories:
  - Cate
  - writing
  - readwrite
  - Connected Devices
  - Fintech
  - Health
  - Industrial
  - Smart Cities
  - Transport
tags:
  - Aldebaran
  - Boston Dynamics
  - featured
  - IBM
  - Internet of Things
  - IoT
  - Machine Learning
  - NAO
  - Pepper
  - Personal Robotics
  - Robot
  - top
  - Toshiba
  - Watson
meta:
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-exclude: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-standout: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-editors-pick: 'off'
  _edit_last: '550'
  _oembed_b0c9b28ded2afeb270eb0186b3f2d90b: <iframe width="500" height="281" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/rVlhMGQgDkY?feature=oembed"
    frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
  _oembed_time_b0c9b28ded2afeb270eb0186b3f2d90b: '1461562928'
  _thumbnail_id: '915'
  _disabel_wpdevart_facebook_comment: enable
  ninja_forms_edit_roles: ''
  ninja_forms_edit_user_list: ''
  ninja_forms_edit_editor: _post_editor
  ninja_forms_edit_enable_editing: ''
  ninja_forms_edit_override: ''
  ninja_forms_edit_delete: '0'
  ninja_forms_edit_title: '0'
  ninja_forms_edit_content: '0'
  ninja_forms_edit_categories:
  - Cate
  - writing
  - readwrite '0'
  ninja_forms_edit_tags: '0'
  ninja_forms_edit_status: '0'
  _yoast_wpseo_primary_category: '7084'
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskeywords: "[]"
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskw_text_input: Customer
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskw: Customer
  _yoast_wpseo_metadesc: While AI waiters were recently fired from Guangzhou, China,
    restaurant, there are more and more of these robots in more customer-facing roles
    in society.
  _yoast_wpseo_linkdex: '85'
  rp4wp_auto_linked: '1'
  rp4wp_cached: '1'
  _is_empty_after_transformation: 'no'
  _has_warnings_after_transformation: 'no'
author:
  login: cate-lawrence
  email: cate@atravellingcook.com
  display_name: Cate Lawrence
  first_name: Cate
  last_name: Lawrence
---
You may have heard the news lately from Guangzhou, China about [the
firing of robots as
waitstaff](https://shanghaiist.com/2016/04/06/restaurant_fires_incompetent_robot_staff.php).
Out of three restaurants that used robots to serve customers, two have
closed and the third fired its robot workers. The reasons? The robots
couldn't effectively handle soup dishes, often malfunctioned, and had to
follow a fixed route that sometimes resulted in clashes. A customer also
claimed that robots were unable to do tasks such as topping up water or
placing a dish on the table.

![robot-waiter-guangzhou-1](rw-import/robot-waiter-guangzhou-1.jpg){.wp-image-912
.aligncenter width="657" height="437"}

> "The robots weren't able to carry soup or other food steady and they
> would frequently break down. The boss has decided never to use them
> again," said one employee.

The robots were priced at around \$8,000, not including electricity and
repairs, making them cheaper than human staff. But except for the
novelty value, it was a somewhat failed experiment.

However, robots are being used increasingly in customer support and care
in a range of capacities. While there are none operating with complete
autonomy, there are plenty of examples where robots have a functional
purpose which they are successfully delivering.

You'll find robots in customer service roles now
------------------------------------------------

You're no doubt familiar with [Pepper
Robots](https://readwrite.com/2016/03/10/pepper-robot-helper/), who
partake a range of tasks including helping people at train stations in
France, providing information and direction on trains. In Spain and
France, they work in department stores, highlighting products and
providing directions.

![12184001\_618711521603081\_6090011780322471051\_o](rw-import/12184001_618711521603081_6090011780322471051_o.jpg){.size-full
.wp-image-926 .aligncenter width="720" height="479"}

You may have seen Japan's [Henn na Hotel](https://www.h-n-h.jp/en/) that
is staffed largely by robots in both front desk and customer service
tasks. But it's not merely a one-off. Robotics company
[Savioke ](https://www.savioke.com/)have created a robot called Relay for
hotel delivery service. It can navigate autonomously, ride the elevator
by itself, and carry items such as toothbrushes, towels, and snacks to
guest rooms. It's currently employed successfully in several US
hotels. The robot - which uses Wi-Fi and 3D cameras to navigate around
the hotel - doesn't have arms, so it has to rely on its display screen
to communicate with guests.

![Robot-Mario-test-een-biertje-ht
(1)](rw-import/Robot-Mario-test-een-biertje-ht-1.jpg){.size-full
.wp-image-919 .aligncenter width="710" height="430"}

In Belgium, [The Marriott Hotel
Ghent](https://www.marriott.com/hotels/travel/gnemc-ghent-marriott-hotel/) employs
"Mario" - designed to provide an extra level of client experience. Mario
is deployed in the MICE (Meetings, Incentives, Conventions, Exhibitions)
market for a welcome or farewell speech. Like many corporate mid-level
execs, he also gives classic PowerPoint presentations. Mario sprung from
the collection of Nao robots created
by [Aldebaran](https://www.aldebaran.com/en)  - the team behind Pepper,
too.

Aldebaran's Nao family of robots are also utilized at Hilton McLean in
Virginia
where[ "Connie](https://www-03.ibm.com/press/us/en/pressrelease/49307.wss)," 
the first Watson-enabled robot concierge in the hospitality industry is
employed.  Connie draws on domain knowledge from Watson and WayBlazer to
inform guests on local tourist attractions, dining recommendations and
hotel features and amenities. Using a combination of Watson APIs,
including Dialog, Speech to Text, Text to Speech and Natural Language
Classifier, Connie greets guests upon arrival and answers questions
about hotel amenities, services and hours of operation.

Kids loves robots while in hospital
-----------------------------------

Nao robots also have more serious  functions to serve. In Canada, they
come in the form of [MEDi](https://www.rxrobots.com/medi-kits.html),
employed at the [Alberta Children's
Hospital.](https://www.childrenshospital.ab.ca/site/PageNavigator/news_events/Medirobot.html)
The robots are are specifically programmed with sets of behaviors that
match the steps of a medical procedure, providing pain management
support during medical procedures.

 

![medi](rw-import/medi.jpg){.size-full
.wp-image-911 .aligncenter width="620" height="348"}

 

A study at the hospital involving 57 children between the ages of four
and nine found the robots helped ease fears when children came in for
flu shots. According to Tanya Beran, a professor of Community Health
Sciences at the University of Calgary who helped program the robots, she
says among those kids who interacted with the robot, the hospital
reduced children's pain and anxiety by half. MEDi is programmed to
interact with kids for a wide range of procedures, starting with flu
vaccines and blood draws and since expanding to include IV and catheter
removal and brain-activity tests. Beran says they're looking to add
cast-cutting to MEDi's skills soon.

![6256240-3x2-700x467](rw-import/6256240-3x2-700x467.jpg){.size-full
.wp-image-915 .aligncenter width="700" height="467"}

The use of robots in aged-care is also on the rise. Often a poorly paid,
thus understaffed, sector, it's not unreasonable to see a future where
basic work and support tasks will be performed by robots or people
assisted by robots or exoskeletons.

[RIBA](https://rtc.nagoya.riken.jp/RIBA/index-e.html) in Japan is the
first robot that can lift up or set down a real human from or to a bed
or wheelchair. RIBA does this using its very strong human-like arms and
by novel tactile guidance methods using high-accuracy tactile sensors.
RIBA was developed by integrating RIKEN's control, sensor, and
information processing and TRI's material and structural design
technologies.

Robots in hospitals also have a part of play in germ prevention.
[Xenex](https://www.xenex.com/) "germ zapping robots" are currently
operational in a series of hospitals and aged care facilities in the
US. The Xenex robot uses pulsed xenon to create broad spectrum, high
intensity light covering the entire germicidal spectrum. The light
quickly destroys harmful bacteria, viruses, fungi and bacterial spores
on surfaces inside the facility.

What's next for robots?
-----------------------

Clearly the advent of machine learning means that robots are getting
smarter. There's also greater efforts to make robots more lifelike; This
month saw the release of Jia Jia, developed at the University of Science
and Technology of China, a human-looking robot which can speak, show
micro-expressions, move its lips, and move its body.

![tumblr\_nyq6wiEzCQ1u8cizpo1\_1280](rw-import/tumblr_nyq6wiEzCQ1u8cizpo1_1280-1024x683.jpg){.wp-image-928
.aligncenter width="754" height="503"}

The robot is not dissimilar in appearance to Chihira Junco, [a robot
released last year by
Toshiba](https://www.toshiba.co.jp/about/press/2015_10/tp1901.htm),
employed as a greeter at a waterpark and public events. Junko speaks
Japanese, English and Chinese and incorporates Toshiba’s speech
synthesis technology.

Perhaps the most interesting robot I've seen of late comes from [Boston
Dynamics](https://www.bostondynamics.com/index.html), who you may recall
bought us the [big dog
robot](https://www.bostondynamics.com/robot_bigdog.html). "Atlas, The
Next Generation" is designed to operate outdoors and inside buildings.
It is specialized for mobile manipulation, and electrically powered and
hydraulically actuated. It uses sensors in its body and legs to balance
and LIDAR and stereo sensors in its head to avoid obstacles, assess the
terrain, help with navigation and manipulate objects. This version of
Atlas is about 5' 9" tall   - about a head shorter than the DRC Atlas -
and weighs 180 lbs. It's not pretty enough to be functional in customer
care but it sets an interesting - if a little sinister - look into
robots of the future.

https://youtu.be/rVlhMGQgDkY
