---
layout: post
title: 'Calm, cruel and connected: September''s best and worst of IoT'
date: 2016-10-02 17:02:09.000000000 +02:00
type: post
published: true
publication_url: null
categories:
  - Cate
  - writing
  - readwrite
  - Connected Devices
tags:
  - Alchema
  - behavior modification
  - connected home
  - connected kitchen
  - connected sound
  - Home Automation
  - home security
  - Internet of Things
  - IoT
  - Life Space UX
  - smart home
  - smart kitchen
  - Sony
  - wearable
meta:
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-exclude: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-standout: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-editors-pick: 'off'
  _edit_last: '550'
  _oembed_4a60195015db08432cd5618bafdf3f49: "{{unknown}}"
  _oembed_8c8e6d38ef318205caa32f56cf5f9252: "{{unknown}}"
  _wpuf_form_id: ''
  _disabel_wpdevart_facebook_comment: enable
  _yoast_wpseo_primary_category: '7084'
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskeywords: "[]"
  _oembed_eba1a5710c906865cc1cf19a006bc7f3: "{{unknown}}"
  _oembed_09e5d06e0769c4fd0e6e28c653671e01: "{{unknown}}"
  _oembed_adc9e75baed45433c267d5e512c6b97c: "{{unknown}}"
  _oembed_b6357250734bde003fb895ad0ce4cbab: "{{unknown}}"
  _thumbnail_id: '7503'
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskw_text_input: Calm
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskw: Calm
  _yoast_wpseo_title: 'Calm, cruel and connected: September''s best and worst of IoT'
  _yoast_wpseo_metadesc: Our monthly roundup to the highs and lows, the zeniths and
    nadirs, of the seldom calm often crazy world of crowdfunded IoT ideas.
  _yoast_wpseo_linkdex: '77'
  boomtrain_blacklist: '0'
  _boomtrain_blacklist: field_581cd80e9d313
  instant_articles_submission_id: '743670855771480'
  _advads_ad_settings: a:2:{s:11:"disable_ads";i:0;s:19:"disable_the_content";i:0;}
  _yoast_wpseo_content_score: '60'
  _is_empty_after_transformation: 'no'
  _has_warnings_after_transformation: 'no'
author:
  login: cate-lawrence
  email: cate@atravellingcook.com
  display_name: Cate Lawrence
  first_name: Cate
  last_name: Lawrence
---
It seems that every day a new IoT device or means to connect existing
devices is revealed. With so much energy in being devoted to tell us
how, when, where, what we can connect to each other, the “why” may be
getting a little blurry. So we want to take a step back every now
and[take a calm, cruel and critical
look](https://readwrite.com/2016/08/31/calm-cruel-and-connected-augusts-best-and-worst-of-iot-dl1/)
at the connected devices that actually go out and buy, right now.

Here’s what caught our eye, for all the right – or wrong – reasons:

PIN Genie Smart Lock
--------------------

![c2918a25b5b53d112a9464ceccd417b4\_original](rw-import/c2918a25b5b53d112a9464ceccd417b4_original.jpg){.size-full
.wp-image-7489 .aligncenter width="680" height="453"}

Home security is a big concern to all, especially those who offer their
properties for Airbnb. [PIN Genie Smart
Lock](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/106385760/pin-genie-smart-lock?search=commandpartners)
is the first peep-proof and hidden camera-proof PIN door lock. Equipped
with a patent-pending touchscreen pad, it shortens your ten-digit
passcode into just four buttons for simple usability. With each use, PIN
Genie Smart Lock reshuffles the numbers. No one will be able to guess
your unique PIN, even if they’re watching. Go ahead, dare your friends!
They won’t be able to guess your PIN code.

My initial concern was that it would be a struggle when you are unable
to see clearly to type the PIN number after far too many cocktails  - -
particularly as after three failed attempts the PIN pad will be disabled
for one hour. Fortunately, you can still use a corresponding app or
physical key alternatively to open the door, covering all bases. They're
now crowdfunding
on[ Kickstarter](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/106385760/pin-genie-smart-lock?search=commandpartners)
and you can preorder your very own.

*Verdict: Hit*

Sony glass sound speaker
------------------------

![glass\_speaker\_freshersmag\_07](rw-import/glass_speaker_freshersmag_07.jpg){.size-full
.wp-image-6072 .aligncenter width="850" height="516"}

 

Envisage a rather delicate looking wireless lamp with a speaker. Bundle
it with a suite of exclusive products by Sony called [Life Space
UX](https://www.sony.com/electronics/life-space-ux). Add a marketing
campaign that includes a troupe of hipsters carrying the lamp through a
forest at night and using it for a spot of
[glamping](https://www.glamping.com/what-is-glamping/).

Add a price tag of \$799. Yes, it's essentially \$800 for a
lantern/speaker combo, made of easily breakable components like glass,
just right for when you trip over a tree root. Apparently the sound
quality is excellent. But you could buy a flashlight for \$20 and stay
in a hotel instead.

*Verdict: Miss*

Alchema
-------

![7e114aec1e9cdc356823d1acf8d1119e\_original](rw-import/7e114aec1e9cdc356823d1acf8d1119e_original-1024x576.jpg){.alignnone
.size-large .wp-image-7496 width="1024" height="576"}

DIY homebrewing and fermenting is a hobby enjoyed by many all around the
world. Coming from a home where you could be awakened by homemade ginger
beer bottles exploding in the laundry, there's a number of very tangible
benefits to the [Alchema](https://www.alchema.com/product)system.

It comes with recipes on a corresponding app which also includes key
facts about your current batch, including fermentation temperature,
pressure, and alcohol content. The latter is particularly important as
it's extremely difficult to measure the alcohol content of homemade
booze with any definite accuracy, meaning a particularly potent beverage
could put you down for hours.

There's even a built-in sanitization tool meaning you no longer need
chemicals to sterilize the equipment. There are a few negatives. The
device is a relatively small size, considering homemade enthusiasts
typically like to make generous quantities to give away to neighbors and
friends. It's unclear if you can bottle the finished product after
fermenting and how long it would keep outside of device. It also comes
at a rather high price of \$429. That said, it's one of the most
interesting products in the home drinks market and will give devices
like the
[Brewie](https://www.indiegogo.com/projects/brewie-world-s-first-fully-automated-home-brewery-beer-brewery#/)
and
[MiniBrew](https://www.indiegogo.com/projects/minibrew-the-easiest-smartest-brewing-machine#/)some
competition. If you'd like your own, it's now crowdfunding on
[Kickstarter](https://www.indiegogo.com/projects/alchema-turn-fruit-into-personalized-craft-cider-food-diy#/).

*Verdict: Hit*

Bedjet
------

![screen-shot-2016-09-19-at-17-39-45](rw-import/Screen-Shot-2016-09-19-at-17.39.45-1024x590.jpg){.size-large
.wp-image-7499 .aligncenter width="1024" height="590"}

The
[BedJet](https://bedjet.com/products/bedjet-v2-dual-zone-climate-comfort-system-with-biorhythm-sleep-technology)
is based on the hardly new notion of enabling a bed to be an appropriate
temperature to suit the needs of both bedfellows. This is not achieved
through different sleepwear or bed blankets but instead a BedJet
AirComforter sheet that contains two separate hollow cavities in which
BedJet Air Nozzles fill, gently distributing the warming or cooling air
to a specific half of the bed.

The temperature/air flow can be modified via a
corresponding[app](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.bedjet.remote).
But to be exact, if you want to temperature control *both* sides of the
bed  - - presumably the point - - you need to buy the Dual Zone bundle
for independent cooling and warming to each half of the bed with two
BedJet machines -double the price at \$929. I'm sure I'm not the only
one reminded of those air conditioners that funnel air out the window
via a plastic pipe. It's hard to believe people would actually buy this,
but apparently they do!

*Verdict: Miss*

Lowiee smart cigarette case
---------------------------

![background-en](rw-import/background-en-1024x435.jpg){.wp-image-7502
.aligncenter width="970" height="411"}

Quitting smoking can a difficult and disheartening experience for many.
French company [Lowiee](https://www.lowiee.com/) have come up with a
novel way to support people in the process through a connected cigarette
case. Users can set the number of cigarettes they want to smoke in a day
along with a time interval between the dispensing of each cigarette.
This brings a level of awareness into one's smoking habits and behavior.
The case is fingerprint locked so no one else can gain entry.

An app enables you to share your progress with others trying to quit
smoking, including the amount of money you have saved, so you can
compare your achievements and challenge each other. It's only available
as a pre-order right now, but it adds an additional level of engagement
that current smoking cessation apps lack.

*Verdict: Hit*

Little Rooster alarm clock
--------------------------

![31jk1weftyl-\_sx425\_](rw-import/31Jk1WeftYL._SX425_.jpg){.size-large
.wp-image-7505 .aligncenter width="425" height="389"}

The latest connected pleasure product to hit the internet is designed to
make your mornings a happy experience. It's basically a wearable sex toy
that claims to gradually awaken the wearer over 5 minutes with an
orgasm.

With the assertion *"*Set the alarm and slip it in your panties. Because
of its shape you won't notice it,*"* the makers of the[Little
Rooster](https://www.littleroosterstore.com/)connected sex toy/alarm
clock are obviously heavier sleepers than the rest of us. It's a product
that leaves me with more questions than answers. How could you not
notice a big hunk of plastic in your nether regions? What happens when
you roll over in bed? Can you put it on snooze? What if it got hacked
via the app? How will they get the app in the iTunes store? Read the
customer comments for a laugh, as users confess to wearing it outside of
the bedroom. My favorite:

> "I used to fall asleep and miss my stop. I don't miss it now! Plus, my
> colleagues have noticed a change, but I haven't told them why."

The device has 27 ultra-quiet levels of intensity, plus three more
super-loud ones for the deep sleepers. Will it get you out of bed on
time? Well, it might not if it works as well as the customers claim. It
retails at around \$57. Why do so many connected sex toys come from the
UK?

*Verdict: Hey you decide, to each their own. *
