---
layout: post
title: EMnify Brings German Innovation To IoT
date: 2016-03-25 06:45:31.000000000 +01:00
type: post
published: true
publication_url: null
categories:
  - Cate
  - writing
  - readwrite
  - Connected Devices
  - Fintech
  - Health
  - Industrial
  - Smart Cities
  - Transport
tags:
  - emnify
  - europe
  - Germany
  - IoT
  - IoT Security
meta:
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-exclude: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-standout: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-editors-pick: 'off'
  _edit_last: '550'
  _disabel_wpdevart_facebook_comment: enable
  ninja_forms_edit_roles: ''
  ninja_forms_edit_user_list: ''
  ninja_forms_edit_editor: _post_editor
  ninja_forms_edit_enable_editing: '1'
  ninja_forms_edit_override: ''
  ninja_forms_edit_delete: '0'
  ninja_forms_edit_title: '0'
  ninja_forms_edit_content: '0'
  ninja_forms_edit_categories:
  - Cate
  - writing
  - readwrite '0'
  ninja_forms_edit_tags: '0'
  ninja_forms_edit_status: '0'
  _yoast_wpseo_primary_category: '7087'
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskeywords: "[]"
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskw_text_input: EMnify brings
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskw: EMnify brings
  _yoast_wpseo_metadesc: Germany has been long considered a hotbed of innovation.
    EMnify brings that home in the very fragmented European IoT market
  _yoast_wpseo_linkdex: '81'
  _thumbnail_id: '132'
  rp4wp_cached: '1'
  _is_empty_after_transformation: 'no'
  _has_warnings_after_transformation: 'yes'
author:
  login: cate-lawrence
  email: cate@atravellingcook.com
  display_name: Cate Lawrence
  first_name: Cate
  last_name: Lawrence
---
Germany has been long considered a country of scientific, technological
and engineering innovation. This is reflected in the strength of  IoT
technology which extends far beyond the automobile industry.  Keen to
get a feel for an insider's perspective, I met with Martin Giess,
[EMnify](https://www.emnify.com/) co-founder and Chief Technology Officer
and Frank Stoecker, [EMnify](https://www.emnify.com/) co-founder and CEO.

EMnify is  a next-generation elastic Cloud Service enabling enterprises
and OEMs to connect M2M (machine to machine) and IoT devices globally
throughout the lifecycle of a device. It uses provider-agnostic M2M SIM
cards in combination with a custom-built, scalable, globally distributed
Evolved Packet Core (EPC). It’s RESTful-API and management platform can
be fully integrated into existing systems to aid monetization of IoT
ventures. EMnify services are provided as SaaS and IaaS, supporting
cellular and LPWAN connectivity.

EMnify was founded in 2014 and all three founders actively work within
the company, first beginning work together in messaging in 2000. They
became the first non-operator in SS7 messaging.

\[caption id="attachment\_133" align="aligncenter"
width="357"\]![emnify-1](rw-import/giess-300x288.jpg){.wp-image-133
width="357" height="343"} EMnify CEO Frank Stoecker\[/caption\]

**How has the IoT sector evolved in Germany?**

*Martin Giess: *“The IoT and M2M sector in Germany has evolved a lot in
recent years. It’s gone from classic fleet management to be more focused
on tracking any valuable assets - moving or stationary, from people/pets
to high value equipment. In Germany in particular there’s been a lot of
evolution around tracking construction equipment and high value
machinery built by the German Mechanical Engineering Industry
(Maschinenbau).

Initially, IoT systems started as simple alert systems such as emergency
buttons in elevators that if pressed instantly call/alert an operator.
Now, companies use IoT systems to remotely monitor and collect much more
detailed operational data which is then analyzed using big data
techniques. This enables predictive maintenance, remote diagnosis,
optimization of resource utilization and efficient use of human work
force. In this way, German engineers are now able to provide remote
support for their customers all over the world, helping them to more
efficiently run their machinery to the highest quality standards. This
has meant that having assets delivered with built in connectivity and
integrated cloud services is now recognized as an important competitive
advantage.

**What are the particular challenges in the sector?**

*Martin Giess: "*Security is still a pain point and the security risks
that accompany complex IoT project are hard to understand. This is due
to stringent security concepts and best-practice standards still
evolving/being established.

This lack of standards, in conjunction with the general privacy and data
protection issues that come with communicating data over the internet,
is an area where the German IoT industry needs to put more focus.

 In my opinion, there is even the possibility for German IoT companies
to obtain a leadership position in IoT security, which would further
encourage buy-in for IoT technologies from society at large once the
benefits and security standards are better understood.”

\[caption id="attachment\_134" align="aligncenter"
width="235"\]![emnify-brings-1](rw-import/stoecker-200x300.jpg){.wp-image-134
width="235" height="353"} EMnify CTO Martin Giess\[/caption\]

**What about specific to Europe, how does it differ to IoT enterprise in
the US?**

*Martin Giess:* “Currently, we have a very fragmented IoT market in
Europe, this is because different standards are being developed within
countries, at a country level, which are often then redundant when
applied in other territories. There’s also standards being developed for
certain verticals which similarly become redundant when applied to other
industries.

To drive innovation from Europe, what we need is an open eco-system
based on standards and interoperability that enables both large
enterprises as well as smaller players and entrepreneurs entering the
market, with innovative solutions that serve projects all over the EU.

Protocols and data standards that are developed for specific territories
or verticals also lock consumers to one vendor. If consumers cannot
migrate their data when they replace a device using a different
manufacturer, they will in effect lose any benefit from the data they
have been accumulating over time. This again creates a closed and
fragmented market.”

**What’s next for Emnify?**

*Frank Stoecker: *EMnify is growing rapidly with new investors and
customer coming on board; most [recently we
signed](https://www.emnify.com/media-releases/emnify-growing-rapidly-as-new-investor-is-secured/)
on Lars Singbartl as an investor, the former head of Warburg Pincus
Germany. In particular, we’ve seen interest from enterprises and
investors increase with our recent launches:

-   [EMcore](https://www.emnify.com/media-releases/emnify-launches-virtualized-mobile-core-network-for-m2m-connectivity/)
    – our virtualized core network
-   [EMpower](https://www.emnify.com/media-releases/emnify-launches-first-ever-service-and-connectivity-management-bundle-2/)
    – an industry-first connectivity and service management bundle
-   [EMtrust](https://www.emnify.com/media-releases/emnify-launches-trusted-service-manager-function-advanced-euicc-management/)
    – an industry-first Trusted Service Manager function for the
    management and provisioning of eUICC SIMs.

We are also currently in the process of signing major channel partner
deals which will commence in the second half of 2016. We will also
engage in a new funding round during the second half of 2016. The money
sourced in this funding round will mainly be spent to accelerate our
global sales and marketing efforts which we initiated in October 2015.
