---
layout: post
title: The Commerce of Things is coming to a retailer near you
date: 2016-06-06 12:00:27.000000000 +02:00
type: post
published: true
publication_url: null
categories:
  - Cate
  - writing
  - readwrite
  - Connected Devices
  - Fintech
  - Health
  - Industrial
  - Smart Cities
  - Transport
tags:
  - digital river
  - ecommerce
  - featured
  - Internet of Commerce
  - online shopping
  - retail
  - shopping
  - top
meta:
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-exclude: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-standout: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-editors-pick: 'off'
  _edit_last: '550'
  _thumbnail_id: '2860'
  _wpuf_form_id: ''
  _disabel_wpdevart_facebook_comment: enable
  _yoast_wpseo_primary_category: '7091'
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskeywords: "[]"
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskw_text_input: Commerce
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskw: Commerce
  _yoast_wpseo_title: The Internet of Commerce is coming to a retailer near you
  _yoast_wpseo_metadesc: The "Internet of Commerce," as imagined by James Gagliardi
    of Digital River, will curate, refine and reorder for you based on your purchasing
    history.
  _yoast_wpseo_linkdex: '92'
  rp4wp_cached: '1'
  rp4wp_auto_linked: '1'
  _is_empty_after_transformation: 'no'
  _has_warnings_after_transformation: 'no'
author:
  login: cate-lawrence
  email: cate@atravellingcook.com
  display_name: Cate Lawrence
  first_name: Cate
  last_name: Lawrence
---
Imagine a time when your retail purchases are curated, refined and
personalized by your previous purchasing habits. You receive a package
of ink in the mail when your printer runs low and a new toothbrush head
just before it's time to change yours. This is the Commerce of Things,
according to [James Gagliardi, Vice President of Strategy and Innovation
at [[Digital River](https://www.digitalriver.com/), ]{.s2}]{.s1}and it's
coming to your home and workplace.

I sat down and spoke to James about the role of e-commerce in the IoT
space.

**ReadWrite:** How has the e-commerce platform geared towards IoT
evolved?

**James Gagliardi:** Firstly, Digital River has been around for over 20
years. We're a multi-tenant e-commerce platform and services company.
We’ve been cloud-based before cloud became a popular term for describing
our capabilities. Over that period, we've seen the shift from digital
downloads to subscriptions. First, it started with the anti-virus
software company where you have to pay an annual fee in order to have
your product updated. And now we’re moving to a space where we’re not
just seeing annual subscriptions but monthly subscriptions, and
companies are turning their products into services. For example, Abode
Creative Cloud is now a subscription-based product.

We’re seeing a movement of companies creating products that are
really platforms to deliver services (like smart devices) so your
traditional company creating physical goods is now offering services and
those services at some point need to be monetized . Here we've seen the
entire space grow and evolve, not only from a tech standpoint but from a
global perspective.

**RW: So monetizing services is the key?**

**JG:** Absolutely, it's about taking your smart product and monetizing.
For example, Nest decided to stop making the Revolv smart home hub
(which some people called *The Abandonment of Things*) but ultimately to
me the main reason why they decided to end it was they didn’t have a
strong monetization strategy in place for that product. Personally, I
have over 50 connected devices in my house, from toothbrush to lightbulb
to wearables, but they’re not monetizing those devices. I spent the
\$200 for the Nest product but that's all Nest (gets) in terms of
getting dollars from me. With Revolv, customers were spending their
\$150, but there's a service behind the scenes of data analytics that
essentially - with every customer they’re gaining - they’re also losing
money because of the services they’re providing without monetizing.

Think of the Oral B smart toothbrush. It's connected and has the ability
to provide feedback on how effective you are in brushing your teeth,
effectively gamefying the brushing process. The problem they have is
they don’t have the smart technology to say 'Hey, we know you’ve been
brushing your teeth for twice a day for two minutes so now its time to
replace the toothbrush head.' They haven't made the connection  to
really provide that effective experience.

 

![slide01-fridge](rw-import/slide01-fridge.png){.wp-image-2861
.size-full .aligncenter width="634" height="747"}

*Will Samsung's smart fridge be able to determine when our most
purchased groceries run low and replenish supplies?*

**RW: So, monetization, when utilized effectively, could really change
the notion of repeat customers.**

**JG:** Yeah, think of the cheap printers. They've historically been
really cheap to buy, with the most money made on consumables like
printer ink. The same rules can apply in this new world. For example, we
have one customer that is offering a leased printer and are charging per
print and for the printer cartridge.

If you are a keen runner with connected shoes, it means the shoe
manufacturer will have the opportunity to provide feedback  based on
your gait and stride in running and assist in buying the right pair of
shoes, thus the data they acquire will improve the business to consumer
relationship.

**RW: What will the challenges be? Data security is a huge issue for
many customers, especially if they are sharing it with retailers. **

**JG:** It's a very legitimate big concern, especially in the case - for
example - that Google, which owns Nest and variety of other connected
devices, probably knows more about my habits than I do. I do think that
there likely will be some backlash to this, and I think there will be
some level of regulation that will need to happen. I can almost
guarantee you that there will be a security breach of some of the data
for one of these companies, whether it's your sleeping habits, how much
you walk, and so on. So many people use wearables without contemplating
what's happening with that data.

Short of that, if there's value coming back to the end customer, then
people are probably going to be ok with shared data. Your mobile phone
is probably the most invasive personal device that we could have, we are
all basically are ok with that because of the benefit the mobile phone
brings.

The downside is, again, these companies are trying to offer a service, a
connection with the individual consumer unlike we’ve ever had before.
Even if I bought my Fitbit at Best Buy or from Fitbit directly, I still
have a relationship with Fitbit because I register the product with
them. The downside of all this is the sheer number of relationships that
I have to maintain, hence  the number of companies that I have to store
my credit card information with, where I’m being charged incremental
amounts. At some point there will be an overburdening amount of
passwords and management that will need to be addressed.

**RW: Lastly how will e-commerce look in, say, 20 years?**

**JG:** E-commerce will look completely different. The amount of
analytics, personalization, and predictive analysis means we will be in
a more predictive state than today. Even with traditional impulse buys,
they will be determined by our previous shopping history, like "We think
 you’ll like this product so we're going to ship it to you." Also
obviously VR and AR will come further into play. I still think there
will still be bricks-and-mortar locations, people still like the art of
discovery, but when I walk into a store, it knows who I am, and I will
get specific offers and recommendations, features and feedback.
