---
layout: post
title: 'Calm, cruel and connected: July’s best and worst of IoT'
date: 2016-07-31 15:00:29.000000000 +02:00
type: post
published: true
publication_url: null
categories:
  - Cate
  - writing
  - readwrite
  - Connected Devices
  - Fintech
  - Health
  - Industrial
  - Smart Cities
  - Transport
tags:
  - air pollution
  - child safety
  - Dubstein
  - Elvie
  - Internet of Things
  - IoT
  - Medical Wearables
  - music
  - Porkfolio
  - Smart Device
  - speakers
  - wearable
  - wifi
  - women's health
meta:
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-exclude: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-standout: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-editors-pick: 'off'
  _edit_last: '550'
  _oembed_ddc1011f38c1c7bfdd0d3b1c2f3b2daa: "{{unknown}}"
  _oembed_6aed55968ea4e6bdd40ca9b9fb686a92: "{{unknown}}"
  _oembed_4494ab13d327d8c60593f581e4a812d6: "{{unknown}}"
  _wpuf_form_id: ''
  _disabel_wpdevart_facebook_comment: enable
  _yoast_wpseo_primary_category: '7087'
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskeywords: "[]"
  _thumbnail_id: '4704'
  rp4wp_auto_linked: '1'
  instant_articles_submission_id: '525652890972940'
  rp4wp_cached: '1'
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskw_text_input: cruel
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskw: cruel
  _yoast_wpseo_title: 'Calm, cruel and connected: July’s best and worst of IoT'
  _yoast_wpseo_metadesc: Our monthly roundup to the highs and lows, the zeniths and
    nadirs, of the crazy and cruel, wild and wonderful world of crowdfunded IoT ideas.
  _yoast_wpseo_linkdex: '74'
  _is_empty_after_transformation: 'no'
  _has_warnings_after_transformation: 'no'
author:
  login: cate-lawrence
  email: cate@atravellingcook.com
  display_name: Cate Lawrence
  first_name: Cate
  last_name: Lawrence
---
It seems that every day a new IoT device or means to connect existing
devices is revealed. With so much energy in being devoted to tell us
how, when, where, what we can connect to each other, the “why” may be
getting a little blurry. So we want to take a step back every now
and[take a critical
look](https://readwrite.com/2016/05/01/best-and-worst-iot-week-vr1/) at
the connected devices that actually go out and buy, right now.

Here’s what caught our eye, for all the right – or wrong – reasons:

Smart Handbags
--------------

![md-for-press-rel-e1467066327414](rw-import/md-for-press-rel-e1467066327414.jpg){.size-full
.wp-image-4548 .aligncenter width="460" height="338"}

While I'm not really the target market that lusts after luxury bags, I
do know that if I was to purchase one, I would want proof that I was
buying the real deal and not a cheap knock-off.

Electronics and smart systems company [Thinfilm](https://www.thinfilm.no)
recently announced a partnership
with [[Maria&Donato](https://www.mariadonato.com), a craftsman
leather-goods manufacturer and provider of premium handbags. ]{.s1}[The
two companies are integrating Thinfilm’s NFC SpeedTaü tags into
Maria&Donato’s exclusive handbag collections to battle counterfeiting
and address growing concerns of fraud within the broader luxury goods
market. The smartphone-readable NFC tags will also enable consumers to
learn more about the brand and the product, and purchase limited-edition
handbags online.]{.s1}

[SpeedTap tags are thin, flexible labels that integrate with a product’s
packaging or label and can be read with the tap of an NFC-enabled
smartphone. Each tag is uniquely identifiable and and is virtually
impossible to clone. Once tapped, the tag wirelessly communicates with
the cloud, instantly delivering authentication messaging, serial
numbers, and other relevant content from the brand or manufacturer.
 ]{.s1}

 **Verdict: Hit**

KiBand
------

![Kiband-Pink-983x1024
(1)](rw-import/Kiband-Pink-983x1024-1.jpg){.size-full
.wp-image-4552 .aligncenter width="666" height="613"}

Children running away from their parents is an everyday problem. When I
lived in Australia it was not uncommon to see children on leashes to
stop them running across the road. Now there's a wearable wanting to
address this problem in a more technical way.

The [Kiband](https://kiband.com/) is a wearable device designed for
situations when children wander off in public places like parks, malls,
grocery stores and public events. It's a wristband, or ankle band if you
prefer, with a patent-pending internal locking mechanism. A
corresponding app and the power of Bluetooth track a child's distance
from a parent parent  - - up to about 200 feet - - and emit a 95-decibel
siren, the equivalent to a fire alarm, if they stray too far.

It also notifies the parents if the band is submerged in water for more
than a few seconds. Surely the Kiband's biggest failure, besides a sound
fit to torture any human or animal in their vicinity, is that is does
not utilize any tracking capabilities. The company admits that "Kiband’s
goal is to prevent a lost child, not find a child after he or she is
lost. GPS is not necessary in this application and ultimately lowers the
cost of the product for you, the consumer."

However it's easy to imagine a willful child that would deliberately set
off the alarm, making the much more peaceful child leash a far more
appealing option. The product retails for [\$149 and is available on
pre-order. ]{style="line-height: 1.5;"}[ ]{style="line-height: 1.5;"}

**Verdict: Miss**

Elvie
-----

![Elvie-product-shot-B](rw-import/Elvie-product-shot-B.jpg){.alignnone
.size-full .wp-image-4554 width="845" height="748"}

[Pelvic floor dysfunction](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19932408)
encompasses a range of health conditions that can affect up to 60% of
women at a stage of life. [Elvie](https://www.elvie.com/) is a wearable
device that facilitates exercise therapy to successfully treat these
conditions. It’s a connected pelvic floor exerciser worn internally
short periods of time and gives the user real-time feedback as they
undertake a series of pelvic floor exercises. This includes detecting if
you are exercising incorrectly using motion sensors, while the force
sensors measure the strength of your squeeze. Bluetooth connects to the
app, allowing you to visualize each exercise.  Each device retails at
\$22o.

**Verdict: Hit**

Dubstein
--------

![dubstein\_flask\_5](rw-import/dubstein_flask_5-1024x686.jpg){.size-large
.wp-image-4680 .aligncenter width="1024" height="686"}

When people write articles about the utilization of "technology for
technology's sake," I suspect this is the kind of devices they are
thinking about. [Dubstein](https://www.dubgear.com/) is dubbed by
company Dubgear as "the world's first Bluetooth stereo speaker with
beverage integration". Basically it's an insulated drink cozy that
connects wirelessly via Bluetooth to  Smartphone, MP3 player, tablet or
computer. Dubstein assures us that "your tunes have never tasted so
good" It could be a fun novelty product except for the C\$129 price
tag. Maybe if it actually made me coffee I'd be more interested.

**Verdict: Miss**

Tree Wi-Fi
----------

![TreeWifi-1020x610](rw-import/TreeWifi-1020x610.jpg){.size-full
.wp-image-4549 .aligncenter width="1020" height="610"}

[Air
pollution](https://readwrite.com/2016/06/27/iot-brings-accuracy-to-the-problem-of-air-pollution-tl1/)is
one of the problems of modern society where the Internet of Things can
be part of the solution. Amsterdam based start-up
[TreeWiFi](https://www.heroesandfriends.com/projects/treewifi)  are
building birdhouses that measure air pollution and make the levels of
pollution visible through an LED status light. Obviously visibility is
only one part of the tools needed to fight pollution.

TreeWifi take this a step further. When the server detects an
improvement in air quality, it allows the birdhouse to share it’s
[internet connection](https://inhabitat.com/tag/wifi/) with everyone in
the street. Users that connect to the network get tips & tricks on how
to improve air quality locally before going online. It's an innovative
way to tackle a problem where residential engagement can be difficult.

**Verdict: Hit **

Porkfolio
---------

![](rw-import/hero_01.png){.aligncenter
width="683" height="683"}

Moving to a country where cash is king and coins are still in existence
has taken some getting used to. Getting rid of small change can be a
challenge. But now there's
[Porkfolio](https://www.amazon.com/Quirky-Porkfolio-Smart-Piggy-Black/dp/B00H0RFM9A),
a smart piggy bank that enables you to track your balance and set goals
through a corresponding app. The nose lights up each time a coin is
added and I can see why at a glance,  this would be a good introductory
product to get children interested in saving money.

But I'm not convinced coins are the future. I'd be more impressed if the
pig converted coins to bitcoins or at least notes or took my money to
the bank for me.

**Verdict: Miss**
