---
layout: post
title: Where CES 2016 Missed The Mark
date: 2016-01-08 19:28:52.000000000 +01:00
type: post
published: true
publication_url: null
categories:
  - Cate
  - writing
  - readwrite
  - Build
tags:
  - CES
  - CES 2016
  - fitness
  - health
  - June
  - My UV Patch
  - Samsung
  - smart jewelry
  - wearable devices
  - wearables
meta:
  _thumbnail_id: '135717265365609090'
  _edit_last: '1'
  ninja_forms_edit_roles: ''
  ninja_forms_edit_user_list: ''
  ninja_forms_edit_editor: _post_editor
  ninja_forms_edit_enable_editing: ''
  ninja_forms_edit_override: ''
  ninja_forms_edit_delete: '0'
  ninja_forms_edit_title: '0'
  ninja_forms_edit_content: '0'
  ninja_forms_edit_categories:
  - Cate
  - writing
  - readwrite '0'
  ninja_forms_edit_tags: '0'
  ninja_forms_edit_status: '0'
  _yoast_wpseo_focuskeywords: "[]"
  dpsp_networks_shares: a:3:{s:8:"linkedin";i:0;s:6:"reddit";i:0;s:11:"google-plus";i:0;}
  rp4wp_cached: '1'
  _is_empty_after_transformation: 'no'
  _has_warnings_after_transformation: 'no'
author:
  login: cate-lawrence
  email: cate@atravellingcook.com
  display_name: Cate Lawrence
  first_name: Cate
  last_name: Lawrence
excerpt: We celebrate innovation—most of the time.
---
CES 2016, the big technology event in Las Vegas this week, is a place
where the best and brightest that the tech world can offer. It provided
in a dazzling display of demonstrations, discussions and debates.

For every huge hit that receives accolades and media coverage, there are
those products that don't quite make the mark. They aren't short of
innovation or ingenuity. They identify a problem and attempt to provide
a solution, and as such, we can learn from them.

The failures occur because sometimes the technology hasn't quite caught
up with the creator's mission; the product is overdesigned; or it's too
expensive and for a very limited audience. Here are some of those
products that have much potential but aren't quite there yet.

My UV Patch
-----------

![](rw-import/MTM1NzE3MjY0NTYwMjM3MTg3-2.jpg)\

[My UV
Patch](https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/loreal-debuts-first-ever-stretchable-electronic-uv-monitor-at-the-2016-consumer-electronics-show-300200110.html)
is a sensor wearable tattoo by L'Oreal designed to monitor UV exposure
and help consumers educate themselves about sun protection. It's a
transparent adhesive half the thickness of an average strand of hair
with a patch that contains photosensitive dyes that factor in the
baseline skin tone and change colors when exposed to UV rays to indicate
varying levels of sun.

After time outside, the wearer can  take a photo of the patch and upload
it to a corresponding mobile app, which analyzes the varying
photosensitive dye squares to determine the amount of UV exposure the
wearer has received. The app then advises if it's time to move into the
shade or apply sunscreen.

UV Patch in theory has a lot going for it. It's commendation to see
stretchable electronic sensors in healthcare. It's also great to see a
wearable that measures UV exposure rather than simply sun exposure, as
UV rays can also be damaging in the shade and under trees. But the
limitation of the patch is that the wearer needs to keep taking pictures
of the patch and uploading it to the app, something which would become
easy to forget or bothersome after a period of time. And while
waterproof, L'Oréal didn't mention whether the patch would cope with a
routine of bathing with soap, application of sunscreen, and exposure to
salt and chlorine.

Statistically, skin cancers are disproportionately concentrated on the
head compared with other parts of the body, [with the face, nose, and
ears particularly
vulnerable](https://www.skincancer.org/prevention/sun-protection/shade/seek-the-shade).
Hard to see anyone putting this patch there. Surely there's a way to
keep the most vulnerable part of our skin monitored and safe without
such a conspicuous wearable. (Smart hats, anyone?)

The patch does seem a step up from the June wearable bracelet
by  [Netatmo](https://www.junebynetatmo.com/en-US/site) that also
measures sun exposure through UV sensors.  It's been criticized by some
reviewers for only providing measurable information in direct sunlight.
And it can't be worn when swimming.

The UV patch only lasts for five days. Repeat applications could get
expensive (the retail prices has not been released). It will be
interesting to see how future versions compare.

Gemio Friendship Bracelet
-------------------------

![](rw-import/MTM1NzE3OTM0ODQzNjExMTQ2-2.jpg)\

The [Gemio friendship bracelet](https://www.gogemio.com/) is just the
latest wearable pitched at the female teenage market. It contains rows
of interchangeable “Gemsets” that can be snapped on and off. It's fitted
with LED lights which can be used as a communication device with others
who own them, flashing different light combinations that correlate to
customized messages.

Gemio understands gestures, like a wave or a high five. The wearer can
make it sparkle at the twist of your wrist make a light play when they
wave hello.

Yet at a starting price of \$100, i can't help thinking it's a little
out of the reach of most young women. Yes, they have disposable cash,
but will they want to spend quite so much on a communication trinket?

I'm a bigger fan of the slightly
cheaper [Jewelbots](https://jewelbots.com/), which retail at \$69. These
are programmable friendship bracelets that teach girls the basics of
coding. These also provide the functionality of assigning colors and
light patterns to nearby friends wearing their own version but takes it
up a notch as girls can plug in their charm and use its Arduino software
extend the functionality of their charms. You can even find the
open-source STL design files of earlier charm designs on
[GitHub](https://github.com/Jewelbots/jewelbots-charms).

Welt
----

![](rw-import/MTM1NzE4NjA3MDA2MDAzMTcw-2.jpg)\

The amusingly named
[Welt](https://news.samsung.com/global/samsung-to-showcase-three-creative-lab-projects-for-the-first-time-at-ces-2016) is
a wearable belt—as opposed to the nonwearable kind, one supposes. Welt
offers a discreet means for those interested in their health to monitor
their waist size, eating habits and the number of steps taken, as well
as their time spent sitting down. Sensors in the back of the belt buckle
send data to an app for analysis, which results in the production of a
range of personalized healthcare and weight-management plans.

It's nice to see a wearable move off the arm. It's also nice to see a
health-focused wearable that caters to the less sporty. (It's not like
anyone would wear a leather belt in the gym.)

It's also slightly better than the unfortunately named
[Belty](https://www.wearbelty.com/) of 2014 which was derided for its
appearance. I'm just not sure the intended target market would purchase
the belt.

Bartesan Home Cocktail Machine
------------------------------

![](rw-import/MTM1NzE4OTcxNTQxMzUyNDE4-2.png)

The Bartesan is a bit like a Keurig or Nespresso coffee-pod machine, but
for cocktails. You buy the machine (\$299), provide the liquor, and
insert flavor capsules into the machine. After choosing your choice of
cocktail and the amount of alcohol, the flavor capsule meets the alcohol
and pretty soon, a cocktail is made.  The flavors come in \$20 packs of
12 capsules, including Cosmopolitan, Uptown Rocks, Margarita, Bartesian
Breeze, Sex On the Beach, and Zest Martini.

A [Kickstarter](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/1384275386/bartesian-the-first-capsule-cocktail-machine/description) campaign
raised more than \$100,000 and generated press. As a keen cocktail
maker, I'm a little puzzled why people would buy this. You need to buy
four different bottles of liquor. The machine costs a lot more than a
blender. The flavors aren't cheap, and you do not have the option of
being able to create your own flavors outside of those cocktail recipes
programmed into the machine. That said, perhaps I'm not representative
of their market audience.

I'm  a bigger fan perhaps of Picobrew, which some are calling "a 3D
printer for beer." It's a DIY microbrewer that sits on your counter and
enables you to brew beer using PicoPak ingredient kits produced by more
than 50 of the world's most interesting craft breweries. It retails at
\$669. For that price, you also get a sous-vide function for
meals.  PicoBrew also recently created a PicoBrew BrewMarketplace, which
lets any brewer publish their beer ingredient combination and earn
royalties on every sale. Could this be the programmable future of craft
beer?

Pregnancy Pro
-------------

![](rw-import/MTM1NzE5MzE5MTY1MjE3NDEx-2.jpg)\

Pregnancy tests are highly reliable and easy, even if they do involve
the slightly undignified act of peeing on a stick. [Pregnancy
Pro](https://www.firstresponse.com/en) is described as the first
pregnancy test that syncs with your smartphone and provides access to an
app that offers information and support personalized to you. The
consumer downloads the app, pees on the stick provided, and then gets
personalized information about her fertility. Upon downloading the app,
she can detail whether she's trying to get pregnant or not. That lets
you avoid an awkward "congratulations" message.

I can't help feeling this is perhaps a scenario where the technology is
extraneous. The pregnancy test, at \$15, is double the cost of a
standard test. I can think of better apps for tracking fertility like
[Clue](https://helloclue.com/)and even wearables like Bellabeat's
[Leaf](https://www.bellabeat.com/), a health tracker that monitors
activity levels, sleep quality, stress levels, ovulation, period, and
contraception tracking as a cohesive whole.

Lessons For CES 2017
--------------------

Cheap hardware and open-source software are making it easier to connect
all manner of devices. What's still hard is coming up with an
application that's actually useful. Is the thing that your device is
replacing really broken—or are you stretching to find a reason to put
technology somewhere where it's not useful?

It's not the processors, screens, and batteries on display at CES which
limit technology. Those will get cheaper and better over time. It's the
human ingenuity applied to them—and the time we've taken to get things
right.
