---
layout: post
title: How Tech Is Helping Europe's Refugees
date: 2015-12-11 19:13:04.000000000 +01:00
type: post
published: true
publication_url: null
categories:
  - Cate
  - writing
  - readwrite
  - Social
tags:
  - community
  - Hackathon
  - open source community
meta:
  _thumbnail_id: '134956272054250110'
  dpsp_networks_shares: a:3:{s:8:"linkedin";i:0;s:6:"reddit";i:0;s:11:"google-plus";i:0;}
  rp4wp_cached: '1'
  _is_empty_after_transformation: 'no'
  _has_warnings_after_transformation: 'no'
author:
  login: cate-lawrence
  email: cate@atravellingcook.com
  display_name: Cate Lawrence
  first_name: Cate
  last_name: Lawrence
excerpt: How the tech sector is using specialist skills for good.
---
![](rw-import/MTM0OTU2MjY4ODMyOTg2Mzg2.jpg)\

Mapping created by Arriving in Berlin

Recently it's become rare to turn on the television or click on a news
website and not see articles or news stories about refugees and asylum
seekers. In past months, people fleeing the violence of Syria have
captured the public attention, as people cross country borders with few
possessions. It's a plight which brings out the compassion of many, all
keen to somehow make things better, particularly in response to the
inefficiency of swift, effective government action. 

The tech industry is keen and able to lend a hand. It’s not financial
aid, like the fundraising efforts of
[Kickstarter](https://www.kickstarter.com/aidrefugees),
[Airbnb](https://www.airbnb.com/support-refugees) and
[Google](https://onetoday.google.com/page/refugeerelief), that makes the
sector shine, but the efforts of individuals and groups showcasing what
they do best: creating platforms and structures that let those in
not-for-profit (NFP) and humanitarian aid help as many people as
possible. 

Developers Create Mobile Mapping
--------------------------------

Mobile mapping is a crucial element in the journey of refugees to
safety. Having Google maps, GPS or other mapping devices can mean
[contact with a rescue
boat](https://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/syrian-refugees-technology_560c13e2e4b07681270024d9).
It can mean a refugee is able to [forgo the use of
smugglers](https://uk.businessinsider.com/refugee-crisis-how-syrian-migrants-use-smartphones-avoid-traffickers-2015-9?IR=T)
and take the journey alone. 

Upon arrival, mapping apps like [Arriving in
Berlin](https://arriving-in-berlin.de/) can offer ways to access local
services, like free counseling, doctors who speak Farsi and libraries
with Internet access. 

Humanitarian organization [Global
Initiative](https://www.globalinitiative.net/techfugees-mapping-smuggling-networks-for-better-responses/) has
been working with UK volunteer developers from
[Techfugees](https://www.techfugees.com/) to map smuggling networks and
create a public database of routes. The intention is to identify future
choke points or emerging smuggling markets, and to reduce the
information advantage that smugglers hold over migrants. 

[What3words](https://what3words.com/), winner of the Innovation Grand
Prix at the Cannes Lions festival of Creativity, was one of the most
interesting mapping platforms to come out lately. 

For people in displaced locations like refugee camps and informal
settlements, the system enables them to exercise basic rights—like
reporting crime, getting medical assistance and receiving deliveries. As
a free plug-in universal addressing system, What3words maps the world as
a 3mx3m global grid, with each of the 57 trillion 3mx3m squares being
pre-allocated a fixed and unique three-word address. A geocoder turns
geographic coordinates into these three-word addresses and vice versa. 

Developers Creating Platforms And Connecting People

![](rw-import/MTM0OTc0MDkzNDg0MTA4NDE5.jpg)\

Funzi creates apps with resource for refugees in Finland

There are many different challenges for refugees, including language and
cultural differences compounding obstacles in accessing help, not to
mention overall integration. 

Many developers are intent on creating apps and websites to aid the
daily lives of refugees and those who work with them. While its focus
was originally on African countries, Finnish startup
[Funzi](https://funzi.mobi/)recognized the transferable nature of its
program. So it created a series of learning packages to assist refugees
in Finland, which includes resources on language and communication
skills, everyday life and legal rights. 

![](rw-import/MTM0OTU2MjY4ODMzMDA5NjM0.jpg)\

Notes from Berlin's first Refugee Hackerthon

The startup scene in Berlin has partnered with locals and expats to
develop a range of volunteer projects. 

These include an open-source [Refugee
Phrasebook](https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Refugee_Phrasebook) in over 28
languages covering topics across legal, medical fields. It’s been widely
distributed and praised by border staff, refugees, volunteers and
medical workers. There's also a [Volunteer
Planner](https://volunteer-planner.org/) for those wishing to help
refugees and refugee shelters. The planner currently has over 29,000
volunteers registered, and will roll out to other countries in 2016.

Education And Meaningful Employment
-----------------------------------

![](rw-import/MTM0OTc0NTg0NDUyNTg1OTUw.jpg)\

I Am Not A Refugee employee service created by volunteers

What makes the tech sector distinct from other sectors is that skills
are transferable across continents, unlike many professional industries.
In response to the reality of employment challenges that displaced
people can face, creatives from different parts of the world joined
forces to launch [I Am Not a Refugee,](https://iamnotarefugee.com/) a
site designed to help them find work appropriate to their skills. 

Finnish startups created [Startup
Refugees](https://startuprefugees.com/), a network in conjunction with
government bodies to provide professional internships for asylum seekers
who would otherwise be legally unable to work. Over 250 companies
participate in the program. 

In Berlin, volunteers are creating [Refugee on
Rails](https://refugeesonrails.org/), a coding school for Berlin based
refugees. It offers classes for complete beginners, as well as those who
have interrupted education or have been unable to work for safety
reasons. 

Classes will start in January and the school has been overwhelmed with
offers for classroom space, computers, internships and work experience.
Many of the refugees enrolled currently live in tents, and coworking
spaces offer free memberships to participants, so they can have a warm
and comfortable space to work. One of the crucial roles of the school is
to assist participants with networking and social support, from
attending meetups to participating in hackathons. 

Innovations In Jordan And Beyond: The World’s First Refugee Camp, Fab Lab
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

![](rw-import/MTM0OTU2MzQzNzI2NDUxMzMx.png)

Refugee camp in Syria

As the vast majority of refugees from Syria are living in the Middle
East—namely  Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan, Iraq and Egypt—I'd be remiss to
neglect some of the interesting things happening there. 

[Refugee Open Ware](https://www.row3d.org/) is a humanitarian
organization comprised of building Fab Labs in conflict-affected areas.
They provide training to displaced persons and host communities, while
building solutions to the problems facing victims of conflict. It
currently has a Fab Lab in [Amman,
Jordan](https://www.morethanshelters.org/eng/projects/jordan/) which
trains locals in advanced manufacturing and creates 3D printed
prosthetics. It's in the process of building a Fab Lab in Za'atari
Refugee Camp, which lies on the Jordanian border with Syria and hosts
83,000 Syrian refugees. 

[Refunite](https://refunite.org/) is a nonprofit tech organization whose
mission is to reconnect refugee families across the globe, empowering
refugees and displaced people to take the search for missing loved ones
into their own hands—whether through a mobile phone, a computer or one
of our free help lines. It uses unstructured supplementary service data
to allow people to search for others registered on the service using
technology similar to text messaging, in locations where full Internet
access might be unavailable or unreliable.

Room For Improvement
--------------------

The sheer number of hackathons, projects, meetings, Facebook pages,
etc., is jaw dropping. What seems to be most crucial is to offer a
centralized space to collate all the initiatives internationally and
allow them to collaborate. 

In researching this article, for example, I have seen at least six
different housing platforms (mostly modeled on AirBnB), not to mention
at least five different platforms for providing local, mobile based
resources to refugees. 

What needs to happen is for the tech sector to start communicating
within its international networks. Berlin’s refugee hackathon is
attempting to respond to this by creating an SQL database in GitHub
called [Meta Brain](https://github.com/refugeehackathon/brain-backend).
The question is, will anyone else use it? 

Sustaining the motivation energy of volunteers and unpaid workers after
the media attention of Syrian refugees and the disruption of the festive
season is challenging. But what the tech scene seems intent on creating
is sustainable projects. If it can avoid reinventing the wheel, it just
might stand a chance of succeeding. 
