---
layout: post
title: 'Buffer''s Gift To Other Startups: How To Grow Gracefully'
date: 2015-12-24 15:00:00.000000000 +01:00
type: post
published: true
publication_url: null
categories:
  - Cate
  - writing
  - readwrite
  - Lead
tags:
  - Buffer
  - Distributed Teams
  - Employees
  - Joel Gascoigne
  - Lean Startup
  - remote employees
  - remote work
  - Respond.ly
  - social media
  - Social Media Management
  - startup
meta:
  _thumbnail_id: '135207267258701070'
  dpsp_networks_shares: a:3:{s:8:"linkedin";i:0;s:6:"reddit";i:0;s:11:"google-plus";i:0;}
  _edit_last: '541'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-exclude: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-standout: 'off'
  _yoast_wpseo_newssitemap-editors-pick: 'off'
  rp4wp_cached: '1'
  _is_empty_after_transformation: 'no'
  _has_warnings_after_transformation: 'no'
author:
  login: cate-lawrence
  email: cate@atravellingcook.com
  display_name: Cate Lawrence
  first_name: Cate
  last_name: Lawrence
excerpt: The social-media management company's secrets.
---
There are dozens if not hundreds of companies that promise to help you
manage social media. One of those companies,
[Buffer](https://buffer.com/), has managed to stand out from the pack
for an unusual reason: its work practices and culture.

When I mentioned to a few people that I'd be interviewing Joel
Gascoigne, Buffer's founder and CEO, their responses varied. Some
mentioned the product—"Oh, I use that all the time"—while others
mentioned their famous workplace transparency—"Did you know they release
their salaries online?"

But my favorite was this one: "They sound awesome. I want to live like
them."

So I set about trying to answer that. If not quite living Gascoigne's
life, could I document for ReadWrite's readers how to work like him and
his colleagues?

Sharing Buffer's Success
------------------------

As it happens, I spoke to Gascoigne on the eve of the
company's [announcement that Buffer had acquired
Respond.ly](https://open.buffer.com/buffer-acquires-respondly/),
expanding it from social media sharing to customer service. It's just
the latest sign of Buffer's success.

Under Gascoigne, Buffer has been an excellent narrator of its own
victories and struggles—Buffer's fastidious commitment to transparency
makes its [company blog](https://open.buffer.com/) read like a
self-published business case study. Here's what I learned.

### Your Best Team May Not Be Where You Are

Buffer has experienced massive growth over the past year. It now has 70
employees around the globe, up from [29 a year
ago](https://open.buffer.com/buffer-december-2014-new-company-structure-5m-annual-revenue/).
Distributed workforces are [becoming more of an accepted
practice](https://readwrite.com/2015/02/24/stack-exchange-remote-employees).
Distinct from simply working from home and checking in to a centralised
office or splitting time between workplace and residence, distributed
companies like Buffer have employees across continents. It's literally
miles away from the traditional team sharing an egalitarian, open-plan
sea of desks that's popular in most startups. 

> **See also: [Why Stack Exchange Doesn't Corral Workers Into An
> Office](https://readwrite.com/2015/02/24/stack-exchange-remote-employees)**

There are many reasons why distributed workforces are advantageous.
There's the obvious ones like cultural and linguistic diversity and the
"always open" scenario of multiple time zones. But there's also the
opportunity to recruit top talent from all over the world, whether in
Baltimore, Bangladesh, or Berlin.  

It means employees have the option of working anywhere with Wi-Fi, be it
a coffee shop, beach, or mountaintop. 

### Meeting The Distributed Challenge

![](rw-import/MTM1MjA3MjY1MTExMTUxODkw.png)

So many voices to be heard 

While the nomadic lifestyle has many merits, it also has a number of
[challenges](https://qz.com/230998/how-to-run-a-team-of-people-who-never-see-each-other/).
You'll need stellar communication to ensure that a workforce is able to
operate as well as it would in a physical office. 

Buffer uses a range of platforms to keep its' employees communicating
like [Slack](https://slack.com/) and [Zoom](https://zoom.us/). [Google
Hangouts](https://hangouts.google.com/) and
[Sqwiggle](https://www.sqwiggle.com/) are also efficient ways to chat
without the need for emails or phone calls. Don't forget to accommodate
everyone in their different time zones: If you have employees in Asia,
Europe, and the Americas, someone's going to be miserable no matter when
you schedule a call. Fairness means rotating the burden—and paying
attention to time zones.

Make Rewards Meaningful
-----------------------

Rethink perks. Buffer isn't the only company to use job titles like
[Happiness
Hero](https://www.theguardian.com/sustainable-business/2015/aug/26/chief-happiness-officer-cho-employee-workplace-woohoo-google).
But how do you define happiness? Is it the thrill of a zany costume
party or a delicious catered lunch? Or is it when staff feel
appreciated, communicate effectively, and get the opportunity to grow in
a workplace?

![](rw-import/MTM1MjA3MzY4NDU4Nzc1MTcx.jpg)\

A pet-friendly workplace is good—but real perks require work.

"We want staff to live their best life, which we reflect in our mission
statement," says Gascoigne. Easier said than done. Buffer offers
unlimited paid vacation days—a perk that's as much about accounting
tricks as staff benefits, since employers don't have to record accrued
vacation on their books as an obligation, and taking any vacation time
now requires approval from a manager and engenders scrutiny from
colleagues.

Sure enough, employees at Buffer saw through the policy and [didn't take
time off](https://open.buffer.com/unlimited-vacation-tips/). The company
had to introduce \$1,000 bonuses for staff to encourage them to make use
of their time off. Another key change: Gascoigne and his cofounder, Leo
Widrich, started taking vacations, which set a positive example for
employees.

Even a small, bootstrapped startup can benefit from ensuring that staff
take proper breaks and find interesting ways to reward staff that
actually mean something to them. And it helps to set an example from the
beginning—a mistake Gascoigne and Widrich made by not taking vacations.

Buffer has also made group getaways an institution, Gascoigne says: "We
have two Buffer Retreats per year, where we gather the whole team in a
single location. We spend a week working together and also do activities
like sightseeing, boating and jet-skiing. We've been to retreats in
places like Lake Tahoe, Sydney, Thailand, Cape Town, and Iceland."

### Share Ideas And Failures 

Buffer decided early on to document its mission statement, work
practices, and experiments. One such trial was a slightly odd journey
into
[self-management](https://www.theguardian.com/sustainable-business/2015/aug/26/chief-happiness-officer-cho-employee-workplace-woohoo-google).
But Buffer also exposed its own failings, like a [major security breach
in
2014.](https://overflow.buffer.com/2014/06/11/how-to-think-about-security-at-startups-its-a-never-ending-job/)
It also [broadcasts employee
salaries](https://overflow.buffer.com/2014/06/11/how-to-think-about-security-at-startups-its-a-never-ending-job/) and
[Buffer's corporate
finances](https://overflow.buffer.com/2014/06/11/how-to-think-about-security-at-startups-its-a-never-ending-job/).

I was curious if this constant sharing had negative consequences. 

Gascoigne said that one program with sharing feedback failed because
Buffer's team didn't take its distributed nature into account.

"The problem was that due to timezones, other people were able to read
the feedback before the intended staff member," he said. The idea was
scrapped after a couple of months. 

Still, when done right, Buffer's style of transparency can also lead to
a greater community following as other people [relate to your
failures](https://open.buffer.com/transparent-when-it-hurts/).

Growth With Grace
-----------------

Buffer's latest
[post](https://open.buffer.com/buffer-acquires-respondly/) about its
acquisition of Respond.ly could read as an etiquette guide on how to be
a nice-guy acquirer. Buffer and Respond.ly built up a relationship over
time, which started with a simple phone call. Buffer then sought
professional advice on whether Respond.ly's features were something they
should build or buy. Gascoigne and his team decided to go with a product
which they felt aligned with their own ethos.

With a rapidly growing team, Buffer now has the challenge of whether its
practices can be sustainable in a larger sphere. Will Buffer employees
continue meticulously blogging about each progression and transgression?
Will they be able to do team retreats with hundreds of employees? Will
policies like unpaid vacation time require more rigid rules over time?

There's not one answer to these questions, nor will an answer stay right
over time. The important thing is that Buffer keeps learning—and keeps
sharing. So should you.
